## arXiv:quant-ph—from Saturday, 2024-03-16 to Saturday, 2024-03-23

## Saturday | 2024-03-16

<details> <summary> <b>Control of quality factor of atomic force microscopy cantilever by cavity optomechanical effect</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10740v1)] Noah Austin-Bingamon, Binod D. C., Yoichi Miyahara


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quality factor plays a fundamental role in dynamic mode atomic force
microscopy. We present a technique to modify the quality factor of an atomic
force microscopy cantilever within a Fabry-P\'erot optical interferometer. The
experimental setup uses two separate laser sources to detect and excite the
oscillation of the cantilever. While the intensity modulation of the excitation
laser drives the oscillation of the cantilever, the average intensity can be
used to modify the quality factor via optomechanical force, without changing
the fiber-cantilever cavity length. The technique enables users to optimize the
quality factor for different types of measurements without influencing the
deflection measurement sensitivity. An unexpected frequency shift was also
observed and modelled as temperature dependence of the cantilever's Young's
modulus, which was validated using finite element simulation. The model was
used to compensate for the thermal frequency shift. The simulation provided
relations between optical power, temperature, and frequency shift.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum Simulation of the First-Quantized Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian</b>—2023-06-19 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11198v2)] Priyanka Mukhopadhyay, Torin F. Stetina, Nathan Wiebe


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We provide an explicit recursive divide and conquer approach for simulating
quantum dynamics and derive a discrete first quantized non-relativistic QED
Hamiltonian based on the many-particle Pauli Fierz Hamiltonian. We apply this
recursive divide and conquer algorithm to this Hamiltonian and compare it to a
concrete simulation algorithm that uses qubitization. Our divide and conquer
algorithm, using lowest order Trotterization, scales for fixed grid spacing as
$\widetilde{O}(\Lambda N^2\eta^2 t^2 /\epsilon)$ for grid size $N$, $\eta$
particles, simulation time $t$, field cutoff $\Lambda$ and error $\epsilon$.
Our qubitization algorithm scales as $\widetilde{O}(N(\eta+N)(\eta +\Lambda^2)
t\log(1/\epsilon)) $. This shows that even a na\"ive partitioning and low-order
splitting formula can yield, through our divide and conquer formalism, superior
scaling to qubitization for large $\Lambda$. We compare the relative costs of
these two algorithms on systems that are relevant for applications such as the
spontaneous emission of photons, and the photoionization of electrons. We
observe that for different parameter regimes, one method can be favored over
the other. Finally, we give new algorithmic and circuit level techniques for
gate optimization including a new way of implementing a group of
multi-controlled-X gates that can be used for better analysis of circuit cost.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>The Dunkl-Fokker-Planck Equation in $1+1$ Dimensions</b>—2023-10-08 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05016v3)] R. D. Mota, D. Ojeda-Guillén, M. A. Xicoténcatl


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  By replacing the spatial derivative with the Dunkl derivative, we generalize
the Fokker-Planck equation in (1+1) dimensions. We obtain the
Dunkl-Fokker-Planck eigenvalues equation and solve it for the harmonic
oscillator plus a centrifugal-type potential. Furthermore, when the drift
function is odd, we reduce our results to those of the recently developed
Wigner-Dunkl supersymmetry.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum metaphotonics: recent advances and perspective</b>—2024-01-30 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16761v2)] Jihua Zhang, Yuri Kivshar


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum metaphotonics has emerged as a cutting-edge subfield of meta-optics
employing subwavelength resonators and their planar structures such as
metasurfaces to generate, manipulate, and detect quantum states of light. It
holds a great potential for the miniaturization of current bulky quantum
optical elements by developing a design of on-chip quantum systems for various
applications of quantum technologies. Over the past few years, this field has
witnessed a surge of intriguing theoretical ideas, groundbreaking experiments,
and novel application proposals. This perspective paper aims to summarize the
most recent advancements and also provide a perspective on the further progress
in this rapidly developing field of research.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>QuantumLeak: Stealing Quantum Neural Networks from Cloud-based NISQ Machines</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10790v1)] Zhenxiao Fu, Min Yang, Cheng Chu, Yilun Xu, Gang Huang, Fan Chen


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Variational quantum circuits (VQCs) have become a powerful tool for
implementing Quantum Neural Networks (QNNs), addressing a wide range of complex
problems. Well-trained VQCs serve as valuable intellectual assets hosted on
cloud-based Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) computers, making them
susceptible to malicious VQC stealing attacks. However, traditional model
extraction techniques designed for classical machine learning models encounter
challenges when applied to NISQ computers due to significant noise in current
devices. In this paper, we introduce QuantumLeak, an effective and accurate QNN
model extraction technique from cloud-based NISQ machines. Compared to existing
classical model stealing techniques, QuantumLeak improves local VQC accuracy by
4.99\%$\sim$7.35\% across diverse datasets and VQC architectures.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Microwave characterization of tantalum superconducting resonators on silicon substrate with niobium buffer layer</b>—2023-06-27 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.15258v2)] Yoshiro Urade, Kay Yakushiji, Manabu Tsujimoto, Takahiro Yamada, Kazumasa Makise, Wataru Mizubayashi, Kunihiro Inomata


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Tantalum thin films sputtered on unheated silicon substrates are
characterized with microwaves at around 10 GHz in a 10 mK environment. We show
that the phase of tantalum with a body-centered cubic lattice ($\alpha$-Ta) can
be grown selectively by depositing a niobium buffer layer prior to a tantalum
film. The physical properties of the films, such as superconducting transition
temperature and crystallinity, change markedly with the addition of the buffer
layer. Coplanar waveguide resonators based on the composite film exhibit
significantly enhanced internal quality factors compared with a film without
the buffer layer. The internal quality factor approaches $2\times 10^7$ at a
large-photon-number limit. While the quality factor decreases at the
single-photon level owing to two-level system (TLS) loss, we have identified
the primary cause of TLS loss to be the amorphous silicon layer at the
film-substrate interface, which originates from the substrate cleaning before
the film deposition rather than the film itself. The temperature dependence of
the internal quality factors shows a marked rise below 200 mK, suggesting the
presence of TLS-TLS interactions. The present low-loss tantalum films can be
deposited without substrate heating and thus have various potential
applications in superconducting quantum electronics.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Exact solution to quantum dynamical activity</b>—2023-11-21 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12627v2)] Tomohiro Nishiyama, Yoshihiko Hasegawa


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The quantum dynamical activity constitutes a thermodynamic cost in trade-off
relations such as the quantum speed limit and the quantum thermodynamic
uncertainty relation. However, calculating the quantum dynamical activity has
been a challenge. In this paper, we present the exact solution for the quantum
dynamical activity by deploying the continuous matrix product state method.
Moreover, using the derived exact solution, we determine the upper bound of the
dynamical activity, which comprises the standard deviation of the system
Hamiltonian and jump operators. We confirm the exact solution and the upper
bound by performing numerical simulations.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>FedQNN: Federated Learning using Quantum Neural Networks</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10861v1)] Nouhaila Innan, Muhammad Al-Zafar Khan, Alberto Marchisio, Muhammad Shafique, Mohamed Bennai


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this study, we explore the innovative domain of Quantum Federated Learning
(QFL) as a framework for training Quantum Machine Learning (QML) models via
distributed networks. Conventional machine learning models frequently grapple
with issues about data privacy and the exposure of sensitive information. Our
proposed Federated Quantum Neural Network (FedQNN) framework emerges as a
cutting-edge solution, integrating the singular characteristics of QML with the
principles of classical federated learning. This work thoroughly investigates
QFL, underscoring its capability to secure data handling in a distributed
environment and facilitate cooperative learning without direct data sharing.
Our research corroborates the concept through experiments across varied
datasets, including genomics and healthcare, thereby validating the versatility
and efficacy of our FedQNN framework. The results consistently exceed 86%
accuracy across three distinct datasets, proving its suitability for conducting
various QML tasks. Our research not only identifies the limitations of
classical paradigms but also presents a novel framework to propel the field of
QML into a new era of secure and collaborative innovation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Multi-controlled Phase Gate Synthesis with ZX-calculus applied to Neutral Atom Hardware</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10864v1)] Korbinian Staudacher, Ludwig Schmid, Johannes Zeiher, Robert Wille, Dieter Kranzlmüller


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum circuit synthesis describes the process of converting arbitrary
unitary operations into a gate sequence of a fixed universal gate set, usually
defined by the operations native to a given hardware platform. Most current
synthesis algorithms are designed to synthesize towards a set of single qubit
rotations and an additional entangling two qubit gate, such as CX, CZ, or the
Molmer Sorensen gate. However, with the emergence of neutral atom based
hardware and their native support for gates with more than two qubits,
synthesis approaches tailored to these new gate sets become necessary. In this
work, we present an approach to synthesize multi controlled phase gates using
ZX calculus. By representing quantum circuits as graph like ZX diagrams, one
can utilize the distinct graph structure of diagonal gates to identify multi
controlled phase gates inherently present in some quantum circuits even if none
were explicitly defined in the original circuit. We evaluate the approach on a
wide range of benchmark circuits and compare them to the standard Qiskit
synthesis regarding its circuit execution time for neutral atom based hardware
with native support of multi controlled gates. Our results show possible
advantages for current state of the art hardware and represent the first exact
synthesis algorithm supporting arbitrary sized multi controlled phase gates.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A massless interacting Fermionic Cellular Automaton exhibiting bound states</b>—2023-04-28 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.14687v2)] Edoardo Centofanti, Alessandro Bisio, Paolo Perinotti


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present a Fermionic Cellular Automaton model which describes massless
Dirac fermion in 1+1 dimension coupled with local, number preserving
interaction. The diagonalization of the two particle sector shows that specific
values of the total momentum and of the coupling constant allows for the
formation of bound states. Furthermore, we present a classification of the
local number-preserving interactions that are invariant under the isotropy
group of the cellular automaton which simulates the Weyl equation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Nonadiabatic quantum Vlasov equation in spinor QED</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10870v1)] Z. L. Li, Y. J. Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The nonadiabatic quantum Vlasov equation in spinor QED is derived, and its
relation to the well-known adiabatic one is established by three methods. One
is by an explicitly analytical expression, the second is by the Dirac equation
in the V gauge, and the last is by introducing a turn-off electric field.
Wherein what the first two of them are given is an instantaneous relation.
Moreover, the time evolution of the distribution function for a specific
momentum and the momentum distribution of created particle pairs after turning
off the electric field are calculated and compared with those in scalar QED. It
is found that both the oscillation periods of the distribution functions in
spinor and scalar QED equal pi divided by the total energy of a particle after
the electric field is turned off. The momentum distributions in spinor and
scalar QED show a novel oscillation and out-of-phase behavior that cannot be
explained by the Stokes phenomenon. These findings will further deepen our
understanding of the quantum Vlasov equation and its application in vacuum pair
production.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A Search for Classical Subsystems in Quantum Worlds</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10895v1)] Arsalan Adil, Manuel S. Rudolph, Andrew Arrasmith, Zoë Holmes, Andreas Albrecht, Andrew Sornborger


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Decoherence and einselection have been effective in explaining several
features of an emergent classical world from an underlying quantum theory.
However, the theory assumes a particular factorization of the global Hilbert
space into constituent system and environment subsystems, as well as specially
constructed Hamiltonians. In this work, we take a systematic approach to
discover, given a fixed Hamiltonian, (potentially) several factorizations (or
tensor product structures) of a global Hilbert space that admit a
quasi-classical description of subsystems in the sense that certain states (the
"pointer states") are robust to entanglement. We show that every Hamiltonian
admits a pointer basis in the factorization where the energy eigenvectors are
separable. Furthermore, we implement an algorithm that allows us to discover a
multitude of factorizations that admit pointer states and use it to explore
these quasi-classical "realms" for both random and structured Hamiltonians. We
also derive several analytical forms that the Hamiltonian may take in such
factorizations, each with its unique set of features. Our approach has several
implications: it enables us to derive the division into quasi-classical
subsystems, demonstrates that decohering subsystems do not necessarily align
with our classical notion of locality, and challenges ideas expressed by some
authors that the propensity of a system to exhibit classical dynamics relies on
minimizing the interaction between subsystems. From a quantum foundations
perspective, these results lead to interesting ramifications for relative-state
interpretations. From a quantum engineering perspective, these results may be
useful in characterizing decoherence free subspaces and other passive error
avoidance protocols.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Cavity magnomechanics: from classical to quantum</b>—2023-10-30 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19237v3)] Xuan Zuo, Zhi-Yuan Fan, Hang Qian, Ming-Song Ding, Huatang Tan, Hao Xiong, Jie Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Hybrid quantum systems based on magnons in magnetic materials have made
significant progress in the past decade. They are built based on the couplings
of magnons with microwave photons, optical photons, vibration phonons, and
superconducting qubits. In particular, the interactions among magnons,
microwave cavity photons, and vibration phonons form the system of cavity
magnomechanics (CMM), which lies in the interdisciplinary field of cavity QED,
magnonics, quantum optics, and quantum information. Here, we review the
experimental and theoretical progress of this emerging field. We first
introduce the underlying theories of the magnomechanical coupling, and then
some representative classical phenomena that have been experimentally observed,
including magnomechanically induced transparency, magnomechanical dynamical
backaction, magnon-phonon cross-Kerr nonlinearity, etc. We also discuss a
number of theoretical proposals, which show the potential of the CMM system for
preparing different kinds of quantum states of magnons, phonons, and photons,
and hybrid systems combining magnomechanics and optomechanics and relevant
quantum protocols based on them. Finally, we summarize this review and provide
an outlook for the future research directions in this field.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Variational Monte Carlo with Large Patched Transformers</b>—2023-06-06 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03921v2)] Kyle Sprague, Stefanie Czischek


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Large language models, like transformers, have recently demonstrated immense
powers in text and image generation. This success is driven by the ability to
capture long-range correlations between elements in a sequence. The same
feature makes the transformer a powerful wavefunction ansatz that addresses the
challenge of describing correlations in simulations of qubit systems. Here we
consider two-dimensional Rydberg atom arrays to demonstrate that transformers
reach higher accuracies than conventional recurrent neural networks for
variational ground state searches. We further introduce large, patched
transformer models, which consider a sequence of large atom patches, and show
that this architecture significantly accelerates the simulations. The proposed
architectures reconstruct ground states with accuracies beyond state-of-the-art
quantum Monte Carlo methods, allowing for the study of large Rydberg systems in
different phases of matter and at phase transitions. Our high-accuracy ground
state representations at reasonable computational costs promise new insights
into general large-scale quantum many-body systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Rotational state dependence of interactions between polar molecules</b>—2024-01-11 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05958v3)] Etienne F. Walraven, Tijs Karman


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The long-range electrostatic interactions between molecules depend strongly
on their relative orientation, which manifests as a rotational state
dependence. Interactions between molecules in the same rotational quantum state
are well-known attractive rotational van der Waals interactions. Interactions
in rotational states that differ by one quantum show resonant dipole-dipole
interactions. We show that where molecules are in rotational states that differ
by more than one quantum, they exhibit repulsive van der Waals interactions. At
temperatures below a millikelvin, this effect can reduce collisional loss by
multiple orders of magnitude. These repulsive interactions lead to applications
in quantum simulation and impurity physics with ultracold polar molecules.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A scheme for deterministic loading of laser-cooled molecules into optical tweezers</b>—2024-01-11 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06028v3)] Etienne F. Walraven, Michael R. Tarbutt, Tijs Karman


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We propose to repeatedly load laser-cooled molecules into optical tweezers,
and transfer them to storage states that are rotationally excited by two
additional quanta. Collisional loss of molecules in these storage states is
suppressed, and a dipolar blockade prevents the accumulation of more than one
molecule. Applying three cycles loads tweezers with single molecules at an
80~\% success rate, limited by residual collisional loss. This improved loading
efficiency reduces the time needed for rearrangement of tweezer arrays, which
would otherwise limit the scalability of neutral molecule quantum computers.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Investigation of Purcell enhancement of quantum dots emitting in the telecom O-band with an open fiber-cavity</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10960v1)] Julian Maisch, Jonas Grammel, Nam Tran, Michael Jetter, Simone L. Portalupi, David Hunger, Peter Michler


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Single-photon emitters integrated in optical micro-cavities are key elements
in quantum communication applications. However, for each combination of a
cavity geometry with a quantum emitter system, there are specific challenges in
the optimization of the emission properties and cavity-emitter interaction.
Here, we present a thorough investigation of semiconductor quantum dots (QDs),
emitting in the telecom O-band, integrated in an open fiber-cavity. The design
provides an optical micro-cavity tunable in all spatial dimensions with
intrinsic fiber-coupling. Consequently, it offers a promising approach to a
high collection efficiency and the investigation of spatially and spectrally
varying samples. On the other hand, the system is also susceptible to
vibrational noise. Therefore, we provide a comprehensive study of the cavity
and emitter properties together with an analysis of the fluctuations of the
cavity length. Due to the Purcell enhancement, we observe a reduction of the
decay times of up to a factor of ${2.46(2)}$.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Procedurally Optimised ZX-Diagram Cutting for Efficient T-Decomposition in Classical Simulation</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10964v1)] Matthew Sutcliffe, Aleks Kissinger


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A quantum circuit may be strongly classically simulated with the aid of
ZX-calculus by decomposing its $t$ T-gates into a sum of $2^{\alpha t}$
classically computable stabiliser terms. In this paper, we introduce a general
procedure to find an optimal pattern of vertex cuts in a ZX-diagram to maximise
its T-count reduction at the cost of the fewest cuts. Rather than reducing a
Clifford+T diagram based on a fixed routine of decomposing its T-gates directly
(as is the conventional approach), we focus instead on taking advantage of
certain patterns and structures common to such circuits to, in effect, design
by automatic procedure an arrangement of spider decompositions that is
optimised for the particular circuit. In short, this works by assigning weights
to vertices based on how many T-like gates they are blocking from
fusing/cancelling and then appropriately propagating these weights through any
neighbours which are then blocking weighted vertices from fusing, and so on.
Ultimately, this then provides a set of weightings on relevant nodes, which can
then each be cut, starting from the highest weighted down. While this is a
heuristic approach, we show that, for circuits small enough to verify, this
method achieves the most optimal set of cuts possible $71\%$ of the time.
Furthermore, there is no upper bound for the efficiency achieved by this
method, allowing, in principle, an effective decomposition efficiency
$\alpha\rightarrow0$ for highly structured circuits. Even applied to random
pseudo-structured circuits (produced from CNOTs, phase gates, and Toffolis), we
record the number of stabiliser terms required to reduce all T-gates, via our
method as compared to that of the more conventional T-decomposition approaches
(with $\alpha\approx0.47$), and show consistent improvements of orders of
magnitude, with an effective efficiency $0.1\lesssim\alpha\lesssim0.2$.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Existence of strongly nonlocal sets of three states in any N-partite system</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10969v1)] Zong-Xing Xiong, Mao-Sheng Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The notion of strong nonlocality, which refers to local irreducibility of a
set of orthogonal multipartite quantum states across each bipartition of the
subsystems, was put forward by Halder et al. in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 122, 040403
(2019)]. Here, we show the existence of three orthogonal quantum states in
(C^2)^{\otimes N} that cannot be perfectly distinguished locally across any
bipartition of the subsystems. Specifically, all these three states are
genuinely entangled, among which two are the N-qubit GHZ pairs. Since any three
locally indistinguishable states are always locally irreducible, the three
N-partite orthogonal states we present are strongly nonlocal. Thus, the
caridnality of strongly nonlocal sets here is dramatically smaller than all
known ones.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantumness and Learning Performance in Reservoir Computing with a Single Oscillator</b>—2023-04-07 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.03462v2)] Arsalan Motamedi, Hadi Zadeh-Haghighi, Christoph Simon


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We explore the power of reservoir computing with a single oscillator in
learning time series using quantum and classical models. We demonstrate that
this scheme learns the Mackey--Glass (MG) chaotic time series, a solution to a
delay differential equation. Our results suggest that the quantum nonlinear
model is more effective in terms of learning performance compared to a
classical non-linear oscillator. We develop approaches for measuring the
quantumness of the reservoir during the process, proving that Lee-Jeong's
measure of macroscopicity is a non-classicality measure. We note that the
evaluation of the Lee-Jeong measure is computationally more efficient than the
Wigner negativity. Exploring the relationship between quantumness and
performance by examining a broad range of initial states and varying
hyperparameters, we observe that quantumness in some cases improves the
learning performance. However, our investigation reveals that an indiscriminate
increase in quantumness does not consistently lead to improved outcomes,
necessitating caution in its application. We discuss this phenomenon and
attempt to identify conditions under which a high quantumness results in
improved performance.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Bounding the Graph Capacity with Quantum Mechanics and Finite Automata</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10985v1)] Alexander Meiburg


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The zero-error capacity of a channel (or Shannon capacity of a graph)
quantifies how much information can be transmitted with no risk of error. In
contrast to the Shannon capacity of a channel, the zero-error capacity has not
even been shown to be computable: we have no convergent upper bounds. In this
work, we present a new quantity, the zero-error {\em unitary} capacity, and
show that it can be succinctly represented as the tensor product value of a
quantum game. By studying the structure of finite automata, we show that the
unitary capacity is within a controllable factor of the zero-error capacity.
This allows new upper bounds through the sum-of-squares hierarchy, which
converges to the commuting operator value of the game. Under the conjecture
that the commuting operator and tensor product value of this game are equal,
this would yield an algorithm for computing the zero-error capacity.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Ultrafast artificial intelligence: Machine learning with atomic-scale quantum systems</b>—2023-03-21 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.12231v2)] Thomas Pfeifer, Matthias Wollenhaupt, Manfred Lein


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We train a model atom to recognize hand-written digits between 0 and 9,
employing intense light--matter interaction as a computational resource. For
training, individual images of hand-written digits in the range 0-9 are
converted into shaped laser pulses (data input pulses). Simultaneously with an
input pulse, another shaped pulse (program pulse), polarized in the orthogonal
direction, is applied to the atom and the system evolves quantum mechanically
according to the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. The purpose of the
optimal program pulse is to direct the system into specific atomic final states
that correspond to the input digits. A success rate of about 40\% is
demonstrated here for a basic optimization scheme, so far limited by the
computational power to find the optimal program pulse in a high-dimensional
search space. This atomic-intelligence image-recognition scheme is scalable
towards larger (e.g. molecular) systems, is readily reprogrammable towards
other learning/classification tasks and operates on time scales down to tens of
femtoseconds. It has the potential to outpace other currently implemented
machine-learning approaches, including the fastest optical on-chip neuromorphic
systems and optical accelerators, by orders of magnitude.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Coherent Acoustic Control of Defect Orbital States in the Strong-Driving Limit</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10989v1)] B. A. McCullian, V. Sharma, H. Y. Chen, J. C. Crossman, E. J. Mueller, G. D. Fuchs


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We use a bulk acoustic wave resonator to demonstrate coherent control of the
excited orbital states in a diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center at cryogenic
temperature. Coherent quantum control is an essential tool for understanding
and mitigating decoherence. Moreover, characterizing and controlling orbital
states is a central challenge for quantum networking, where optical coherence
is tied to orbital coherence. We study resonant multi-phonon orbital Rabi
oscillations in both the frequency and time domain, extracting the strength of
the orbital-phonon interactions and the coherence of the acoustically driven
orbital states. We reach the strong-driving limit, where the physics is
dominated by the coupling induced by the acoustic waves. We find agreement
between our measurements, quantum master equation simulations, and a
Landau-Zener transition model in the strong-driving limit. Using perturbation
theory, we derive an expression for the orbital Rabi frequency versus acoustic
drive strength that is non-perturbative in the drive strength and agrees well
with our measurements for all acoustic powers. Motivated by continuous wave
spin resonance-based decoherence protection schemes, we model the orbital
decoherence and find good agreement between our model and our measured
few-to-several nanoseconds orbital decoherence times. We discuss the outlook
for orbital decoherence protection.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Unconditional Quantum Advantage for Sampling with Shallow Circuits</b>—2023-01-03 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.00995v4)] Adam Bene Watts, Natalie Parham


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Recent work by Bravyi, Gosset, and Koenig showed that there exists a search
problem that a constant-depth quantum circuit can solve, but that any
constant-depth classical circuit with bounded fan-in cannot. They also pose the
question: Can we achieve a similar proof of separation for an input-independent
sampling task? In this paper, we show that the answer to this question is yes
when the number of random input bits given to the classical circuit is bounded.
  We introduce a distribution $D_{n}$ over $\{0,1\}^n$ and construct a
constant-depth uniform quantum circuit family $\{C_n\}_n$ such that $C_n$
samples from a distribution close to $D_{n}$ in total variation distance. For
any $\delta < 1$ we also prove, unconditionally, that any classical circuit
with bounded fan-in gates that takes as input $kn + n^\delta$ i.i.d. Bernouli
random variables with entropy $1/k$ and produces output close to $D_{n}$ in
total variation distance has depth $\Omega(\log \log n)$. This gives an
unconditional proof that constant-depth quantum circuits can sample from
distributions that can't be reproduced by constant-depth bounded fan-in
classical circuits, even up to additive error. We also show a similar
separation between constant-depth quantum circuits with advice and classical
circuits with bounded fan-in and fan-out, but access to an unbounded number of
i.i.d random inputs.
  The distribution $D_n$ and classical circuit lower bounds are inspired by
work of Viola, in which he shows a different (but related) distribution cannot
be sampled from approximately by constant-depth bounded fan-in classical
circuits.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Statics and Dynamics of non-Hermitian Many-Body Localization</b>—2023-01-04 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.01763v3)] József Mák, M. J. Bhaseen, Arijeet Pal


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Many-body localized phases retain memory of their initial conditions in
disordered interacting systems with unitary dynamics. The stability of the
localized phase due to the breakdown of unitarity is of relevance to experiment
in the presence of dissipation. Here we investigate the impact of non-Hermitian
perturbations on many-body localization. We focus on the interacting
Hatano-Nelson model which breaks unitarity via asymmetric hopping. We explore
the phase diagram for the mid-spectrum eigenstates as a function of the
interaction strength and the non-Hermiticity. In contrast to the
non-interacting case, our findings are consistent with a two-step approach to
the localized regime. We also study the dynamics of the particle imbalance. We
show that the distribution of relaxation time scales differs qualitatively
between the localized and ergodic phases. Our findings suggest the possibility
of an intermediate dynamical regime in disordered open systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Log-majorization and matrix norm inequalities with application to quantum information</b>—2024-02-25 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16067v2)] Fumio Hiai


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We are concerned with log-majorization for matrices in connection with the
multivariate Golden--Thompson trace inequality and the Karcher mean (i.e., a
multivariate extension of the weighted geometric mean). We show an extension of
Araki's log-majorization and apply it to the $\alpha$-$z$-R\'enyi divergence in
quantum information. We discuss the equality cases in the multivariate trace
inequality of Golden--Thompson type and in the norm inequality for the Karcher
mean. The paper includes an appendix to correct the proof of the author's old
result on the equality case in the norm inequality for the weighted geometric
mean.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Reducing system dimensionality with long-range collective dipole-dipole interactions</b>—2023-05-08 (updated: 2024-03-16)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04777v4)] Ashwin K. Boddeti, Yi Wang, Xitlali G. Juarez, Alexandra Boltasseva, Teri W. Odom, Vladimir Shalaev, Hadiseh Alaeian, Zubin Jacob


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Dimensionality plays a crucial role in long-range dipole-dipole interactions
(DDIs). We demonstrate that a resonant nanophotonic structure modifies the
apparent dimensionality in an interacting ensemble of emitters, as revealed by
population decay dynamics. Our measurements on a dense ensemble of interacting
quantum emitters in a resonant nanophotonic structure with long-range DDIs
reveal an effective dimensionality reduction to $\bar{d} = 2.20 (12)$, despite
the emitters being distributed in 3D. This contrasts the homogeneous
environment, where the apparent dimension is $\bar{d} = 3.00$. Our work
presents a promising avenue to manipulate dimensionality in an ensemble of
interacting emitters.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Using quantum computers to identify prime numbers via entanglement dynamics</b>—2024-03-16

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14703v1)] Victor F. dos Santos, Jonas Maziero


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The identification of prime numbers stands as a fundamental mathematical
pursuit with significant historical and contemporary significance. Exploring
potential connections between prime number theory and quantum physics
represents a compelling frontier in scientific inquiry. In a recent study by A.
L. M. Southier et al. [Phys. Rev. A 108, 042404 (2023)], the entanglement
dynamics of two harmonic oscillators (or of two spin $s$ particles) initially
prepared in a separable-coherent state was demonstrated to offer a pathway for
prime number identification. Building upon this foundation, this Letter
presents a generalized approach and outlines a deterministic algorithm for
realizing this theoretical concept on qubit-based quantum computers. Our
analysis reveals that the diagonal unitary operations employed in our algorithm
exhibit a polynomial time complexity of degree two, contrasting with the
previously reported exponential complexity of general diagonal unitaries [J.
Welch et al., New J. Phys. 16, 033040 (2014)]. This advancement underscores the
potential of quantum computing for prime number identification and related
computational challenges.
 </details>

## Sunday | 2024-03-17

<details> <summary> <b>JustQ: Automated Deployment of Fair and Accurate Quantum Neural Networks</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11048v1)] Ruhan Wang, Fahiz Baba-Yara, Fan Chen


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Despite the success of Quantum Neural Networks (QNNs) in decision-making
systems, their fairness remains unexplored, as the focus primarily lies on
accuracy. This work conducts a design space exploration, unveiling QNN
unfairness, and highlighting the significant influence of QNN deployment and
quantum noise on accuracy and fairness. To effectively navigate the vast QNN
deployment design space, we propose JustQ, a framework for deploying fair and
accurate QNNs on NISQ computers. It includes a complete NISQ error model,
reinforcement learning-based deployment, and a flexible optimization objective
incorporating both fairness and accuracy. Experimental results show JustQ
outperforms previous methods, achieving superior accuracy and fairness. This
work pioneers fair QNN design on NISQ computers, paving the way for future
investigations.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Generalizations of Powers--Størmer's inequality</b>—2023-02-15 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.07818v3)] Mohsen Kian, Mohammad Sal Moslehian, Hiroyuki Osaka


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Relating to finding possible upper bounds for the probability of error for
discriminating between two quantum states, it is well-known that \begin{align*}
  \mathrm{tr}(A+B) - \mathrm{tr}|A-B|\leq 2\, \mathrm{tr}\big(f(A)g(B)\big)
\end{align*} holds for every positive-valued matrix monotone function $f$,
where $g(x)=x/f(x)$, and all positive definite matrices $A$ and $B$. This study
demonstrates that the set of functions satisfying this inequality includes
additional elements and provides illustrative examples to support this claim.
Furthermore, we present a characterization of matrix decreasing functions based
on a matrix version of the above inequality.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Photonic non-Markovianity identification by quantum process capabilities of non-CP processes</b>—2022-12-07 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2212.03676v2)] Chan Hsu, Yu-Chien Kao, Hong-Bin Chen, Shih-Hsuan Chen, Che-Ming Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A Markovian quantum process can be arbitrarily divided into two or more
legitimate completely-positive (CP) subprocesses. When at least one non-CP
process exists among the divided processes, the dynamics is considered
non-Markovian. However, how to utilize minimum experimental efforts, without
examining all process input states and using entanglement resources, to
identify or measure non-Markovianity is still being determined. Herein, we
propose a method to quantify non-CP processes for identifying and measuring
non-Markovianity without the burden of state optimization and entanglement.
This relies on the non-CP processes as new quantum process capabilities and can
be systematically implemented by quantum process tomography. We additionally
provide an approach for witnessing non-Markovianity by analyzing at least four
system states without process tomography. We faithfully demonstrate that our
method can be explicitly implemented using all-optical setups and applied to
identify the non-Markovianity of single-photon and two-photon dynamics in
birefringent crystals. Our results can also be used to explore non-Markovianity
in other dynamical systems where process or state tomography is implementable.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Characterizing high-dimensional quantum contextuality</b>—2022-12-22 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2212.11559v2)] Xiao-Dong Yu, Isadora Veeren, Otfried Gühne


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  As a phenomenon encompassing measurement incompatibility and Bell
nonlocality, quantum contextuality is not only central to our understanding of
quantum mechanics, but also an essential resource in many quantum information
processing tasks. The dimension-dependent feature of quantum contextuality is
known ever since its discovery, but systematic methods for characterizing the
quantum contextuality in systems with fixed dimension are still lacking. In
this work, we solve this problem. We provide systematic and reliable methods
for verifying whether or not an obtained probability distribution can result
from a $d$-dimensional quantum system, as well as calculating
finite-dimensional violation of a general noncontextuality inequality. As an
application, our methods reveal the non-convex structure of finite-dimensional
quantum contextuality.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Left-handedness with three zero-absorption windows tuned by the incoherent pumping field and inter-dot tunnelings in a GaAs/AlGaAs triple quantum dots system</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12099v1)] Shun-Cai Zhao, Shuang-Ying Zhang, Qi-Xuan Wu, Jing Jia


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Left-handedness with three zero-absorption windows is achieved in a
triple-quantum dot (TQD) system. With the typical parameters of a GaAs/AlGaAs
heterostructure, the simultaneous negative relative electric permittivity and
magnetic permeability are obtained by the adjustable incoherent pumping field
and two inter-dot tunnelings. What's more, three zero-absorption windows in the
left-handedness frequency bands are observed in the TQD system. The
left-handedness with zero-absorption in solid state heterostructure may solve
not only the challenge in the photonic resonant scheme for left-handed
materials (LHMs) but also the application limitation of the negative refractive
materials with large amount of absorption.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Dynamics and Resonance Fluorescence from a Superconducting Artificial Atom Doubly Driven by Quantized and Classical Fields</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11142v1)] Xinhui Ruan, Jia-Heng Wang, Dong He, Pengtao Song, Shengyong Li, Qianchuan Zhao, L. M. Kuang, Jaw-Shen Tsai, Chang-Ling Zou, Jing Zhang, Dongning Zheng, O. V. Astafiev, Yu-xi Liu, Zhihui Peng


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We report an experimental demonstration of resonance fluorescence in a
two-level superconducting artificial atom under two driving fields coupled to a
detuned cavity. One of the fields is classical and the other is varied from
quantum (vacuum fluctuations) to classical one by controlling the photon number
inside the cavity. The device consists of a transmon qubit strongly coupled to
a one-dimensional transmission line and a coplanar waveguide resonator. We
observe a sideband anti-crossing and asymmetry in the emission spectra of the
system through a one-dimensional transmission line, which is fundamentally
different from the weak coupling case. By changing the photon number inside the
cavity, the emission spectrum of our doubly driven system approaches to the
case when the atom is driven by two classical bichromatic fields. We also
measure the dynamical evolution of the system through the transmission line and
study the properties of the first-order correlation function, Rabi oscillations
and energy relaxation in the system. The study of resonance fluorescence from
an atom driven by two fields promotes understanding decoherence in
superconducting quantum circuits and may find applications in superconducting
quantum computing and quantum networks.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>An Alternative Approach to SUSY Oscillators</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12101v1)] Dheeraj Shukla


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this article, we shall discuss the fermionic oscillators in the context of
thermodynamic and statistical framework. Further, we shall also provide a
generalization and physical realization of Schwinger algebra for a system of
pair of oscillators of general types, i.e. bosonic-bosonic,
fermionic-fermionic, bosonic-fermionic. We shall also discuss a few
applications of the results obtained.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>All-thermal reversal of heat currents using qutrits</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11160v1)] Irene Ada Picatoste, Rafael Sánchez


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Few-level systems coupled to thermal baths provide useful models for quantum
thermodynamics and the role of heat currents in quantum information settings.
Useful operations such as cooling or thermal masers have been proposed in
autonomous three-level systems. In this work, we propose the coherent coupling
of two qutrits as a simultaneous refrigerator and heat pump of two reservoirs
forming a system. This occurs thanks to the coupling to two other reservoirs
which are out of equilibrium but do not inject heat in the system. We explore
the thermodynamic performance of such operation and discuss whether it can be
distinguished from the action of a Maxwell demon via measurements of current
fluctuations limited to the working substance.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Relativization is naturally functorial</b>—2024-03-06 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03755v3)] Jan Głowacki


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this note, we provide some categorical perspectives on the relativization
construction arising from quantum measurement theory in the presence of
symmetries and occupying a central place in the operational approach to quantum
reference frames. This construction provides, for any quantum system, a quantum
channel from the system's algebra to the invariant algebra on the composite
system also encompassing the chosen reference, contingent upon a choice of the
pointer observable. These maps are understood as relativizing observables on
systems upon the specification of a quantum reference frame. We begin by
extending the construction to systems modelled on subspaces of algebras of
operators to then define a functor taking a pair consisting of a reference
frame and a system and assigning to them a subspace of relative operators
defined in terms of an image of the corresponding relativization map. When a
single frame and equivariant channels are considered, the relativization maps
can be understood as a natural transformation. Upon fixing a system, the
functor provides a novel kind of frame transformation that we call external.
Results achieved provide a deeper structural understanding of the framework of
interest and point towards its categorification and potential application to
local systems of algebraic quantum field theories.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Effect of Spontaneously Generated Coherence and Detuning on 2D Atom Localization in Two Orthogonal Standing-Wave Fields</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12102v1)] Shun-Cai Zhao, Qi-Xuan Wu, Ai-Ling Gong


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Two-dimensional (2D) atom localization via the spontaneously generated
coherence (SGC) and detunings associated with the probe and standing-wave
driving fields in a three-level V-type atomic system are investigated. In the
gain process, two equal and tunable peak maxima of position distribution in the
plane via the detunings are observed. However, one decreasing and the other
increasing peak maxima in the absorption process via the SGC are achieved in
the quadrants I and III of the x-y plane. A better resolution and more novelty
for the 2D atom localization in our scheme are obtained.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Numerical Realization of Dynamical Fermionization and Bethe Rapidities in a cold quenched Bose gas</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11190v1)] Sumita Datta, Maxim Olshanii


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this numerical investigation, we explore the non-equilibrium dynamics of a
cold Lieb-Liniger (LL) Bose gas -- a well established integrable quantum system
in one dimension exhibiting repulsive interactions. Our study involves the
presence of a hard wall potential during the ballistic expansion of the Bose
gas from its ground state within an infinite deep box of length L0 to a final
length L. The Quantum Monte Carlo method, based on the Generalized Feynman-Kac
approach, serves as our computational tool. Given the integrability of the
Lieb-Liniger model, strongly correlated systems resist thermalization. To
capture the intricate dynamics we employ the concept of Bethe Rapidities(BRs),
a holistic function that extends beyond atomic or energy density
considerations. Our thought experiment involves a box-to-box expansion,
providing a unique opportunity for direct numerical observation of Bethe
Rapidities and the phenomenon of Dynamical Fermionization(DF). This
investigation aims to contribute insights into the behavior of strongly
correlated quantum systems during non-equilibrium processes, offering a
detailed examination of Bethe Rapidities and the dynamic evolution of
Fermionization throughout the expansion.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Manipulative Properties of the Asymmetry Double Quantum Dots via Laser and Gate Voltage</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12103v1)] Shun-Cai Zhao, Zheng-Dong Liu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present the density matrix approach for theoretical description of an
asymmetric double quantum dot(QD)system.The results show that the properties of
gain,absorption and dispersion of the double QD system ,the population of the
state with one hole in one dot and an electron in other dot transferred by
tunneling can be manipulated by the laser pulse or gate voltage.Our scheme may
propose a probability of electro-optical manipulation of quantum system.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum control and Berry phase of electron spins in rotating levitated diamonds in high vacuum</b>—2023-09-11 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05821v2)] Yuanbin Jin, Kunhong Shen, Peng Ju, Xingyu Gao, Chong Zu, Alejandro J. Grine, Tongcang Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Levitated diamond particles in high vacuum with internal spin qubits have
been proposed for exploring macroscopic quantum mechanics, quantum gravity, and
precision measurements. The coupling between spins and particle rotation can be
utilized to study quantum geometric phase, create gyroscopes and rotational
matter-wave interferometers. However, previous efforts in levitated diamonds
struggled with vacuum level or spin state readouts. To address these gaps, we
fabricate an integrated surface ion trap with multiple stabilization
electrodes. This facilitates on-chip levitation and, for the first time,
optically detected magnetic resonance measurements of a nanodiamond levitated
in high vacuum. The internal temperature of our levitated nanodiamond remains
moderate below $10^{-5}$ Torr. Impressively, we have driven a nanodiamond to
rotate up to 20 MHz ($1.2 \times 10^{9}$ rpm), surpassing typical
nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center electron spin dephasing rates. Using these NV
spins, we observe the effect of the Berry phase arising from particle rotation.
In addition, we demonstrate quantum control of spins in a rotating nanodiamond.
These results mark an important development in interfacing mechanical rotation
with spin qubits, expanding our capacity to study quantum phenomena.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Observation of spin-electric transitions in a molecular exchange qubit</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11214v1)] Florian le Mardelé, Ivan Mohelský, Jan Wyzula, Milan Orlita, Philippe Turek, Filippo Troiani, Athanassios K. Boudalis


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Electric fields represent an ideal means for controlling spins at the
nanoscale and, more specifically, for manipulating protected degrees of freedom
in multispin systems. Here we perform low-temperature magnetic far-IR
spectroscopy on a molecular spin triangle (Fe3) and provide the first
experimental evidence of spin-electric transitions in polynuclear complexes.
The co-presence of electric- and magnetic-dipole transitions, allows us to
estimate the spin-electric coupling. Based on spin Hamiltonian simulations of
the spectra, we identify the observed transitions and introduce the concept of
a generalized exchange qubit. This applies to a wide class of molecular spin
triangles, and includes the scalar chirality and the partial spin sum qubits as
special cases.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Amplitude-Ensemble Quantum-Inspired Tabu Search Algorithm for Solving 0/1 Knapsack Problems</b>—2023-11-08 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.12867v2)] Kuo-Chun Tseng, Wei-Chieh Lai, I-Chia Chen, Yun-Hsiang Hsiao, Jr-Yu Chiue, Wei-Chun Huang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this paper, an improved version of QTS (Quantum-inspired Tabu Search) has
been proposed, which enhances the utilization of population information, called
"amplitude-ensemble" QTS (AE-QTS). This makes AE-QTS more similar to the real
quantum search algorithm, Grover Search Algorithm, in abstract concept, while
keeping the simplicity of the algorithm. Later, we demonstrate the AE-QTS on
the classical combinatorial optimization 0/1 knapsack problem. Experimental
results show that the AE-QTS outperforms other algorithms, including the QTS,
by at least an average of 20% in all cases and even by 30% in some cases. Even
as the problem complexity increases, the quality of the solutions found by our
method remains superior to that of the QTS. These results prove that our method
has better search performance.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>The Negative Energy Sea</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11225v1)] Simon Saunders


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Dirac negative energy sea introduced the concept of antimatter, and
explained it, not least in its relationship to negative-energy solutions to the
wave equation. Post-war, it was largely displaced by what I shall call the
'standard formalism', dependent, among other things, on normal-ordering. A much
better explanation is provided by the 'two complex structures' viewpoint, as
first introduced by Irving Segal: the one ('natural') kind of complex numbers
at the level of covariant, local fields; and the other ('particle') complex
numbers at the level of the one-particle Hilbert space and Fock space. The
former is local, the latter non-local: therein lies the fundamental difference
between relativistic and non-relativistic quantum theory.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>2-D isotropic negative refractive index in a N-type four-level atomic system</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12105v1)] Shun-Cai Zhao, Qi-Xuan Wu, Kun Ma


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  2-D(Two-dimensional) isotropic negative refractive index (NRI) is explicitly
realized via the orthogonal signal and coupling standing-wave fields coupling
the N-type four-level atomic system. Under some key parameters of the dense
vapor media, the atomic system exhibits isotropic NRI with simultaneous
negative permittivity and permeability (i.e. Left-handedness) in the 2-D x-y
plane. Compared with other 2-D NRI schemes, the coherent atomic vapor media in
our scheme may be an ideal 2-D isotropic NRI candidate and has some potential
advantages, significance or applications in the further investigation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Negative refraction index manipulated by a displaced squeezed Fock state in the mesoscopic dissipative left-handed transmission line</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13012v1)] Hong-Wei Guo, Shun-Cai Zhao, Xiao-Jing Wei


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Negative refractive index (NRI) of the mescopic dissipative left-handed
transmission line (LHTL) is manipulated by the displaced squeezed Fock state
(DSFS) and the dissipation presented by the resistance and conductance.
Comparing to the classical LHTL, some specific quantum characteristics are
shown in the LHTL because of quantum effect, which will be significant to its
miniaturization application in microwave frequency.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Unveiling gravity's quantum fingerprint through gravitational waves</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11253v1)] Partha Nandi, Bibhas Ranjan Majhi


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A proposal for an improved theoretical model to illuminate the quantum nature
of gravity is given. This model investigates the gravity-induced entanglement
(GIE) phenomena, circumventing classical communication constraints of LOCC
principle. Here a non-relativistic two dimensional quantum oscillator detector
is coupled to linearly polarized gravitational waves (GWs). Exploiting the
quantum nature of GWs, we observe the GIE within the oscillator quantum states.
Since the model satisfies ``event'' as well as ``system'' localities, the
observed GIE is much robust signature for quantum nature of gravity.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Unraveling the emergence of quantum state designs in systems with symmetry</b>—2024-02-14 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08949v2)] Naga Dileep Varikuti, Soumik Bandyopadhyay


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum state designs, by enabling an efficient sampling of random quantum
states, play a quintessential role in devising and benchmarking various quantum
protocols with broad applications ranging from circuit designs to black hole
physics. Symmetries, on the other hand, are expected to reduce the randomness
of a state. Despite being ubiquitous, the effects of symmetry on quantum state
designs remain an outstanding question. The recently introduced projected
ensemble framework generates efficient approximate state t-designs by hinging
on projective measurements and many-body quantum chaos. In this work, we
examine the emergence of state designs from the random generator states
exhibiting symmetries. Leveraging on translation symmetry, we analytically
establish a sufficient condition for the measurement basis leading to the state
t-designs. Then, by making use of the trace distance measure, we numerically
investigate the convergence to the designs. Subsequently, we inspect the
violation of the sufficient condition to identify bases that fail to converge.
We further demonstrate the emergence of state designs in a physical system by
studying the dynamics of a chaotic tilted field Ising chain with periodic
boundary conditions. We find faster convergence of the trace distance in the
initial time, however, it saturates to a finite value deviating from random
matrix prediction at a late time, in contrast to the case with open boundary
condition. To delineate the general applicability of our results, we extend our
analysis to other symmetries. We expect our findings to pave the way for
further exploration of deep thermalization and equilibration of closed and open
quantum many-body systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Benefits of non-adiabatic quantum control in quantum computation through spin qubit systems</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11288v1)] Nirupam Dutta


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  This is evident that the controllable quantum systems can be the reliable
building blocks for Quantum computation. In reality we are witnessing the
progress towards making the idea tractable enough, though optimistic but the
threshold is not very near to us. The dawn of quantum computation has begun. In
the future, we hope to see a full fledged operationally stable quantum computer
which can solve the problems beyond the scope of classical digital computers.
We may call it quantum supremacy. Nevertheless, we should not forget that there
are problems which demand classical computers to be in the game for a better
performance in comparison to the same through quantum devices. In the current
stage of computing technology, the most beneficial area is nothing but an
hybrid approach and that is for no doubt will reign the market for the next
five to ten years. This hybrid aspect has several directions such as simulating
quantum computation on a classical computer. Keeping both the aspect,
computation through real physical devices and simulation on a classical
computer by accessing available quantum computers for cloud computing, some
advantages have been discussed in this article which will be elaborated as well
in future articles. These advantages are inherent if we can achieve proper
non-adiabatic control over the spin system in the laboratory. Otherwise these
aspects can always be simulated by using quantum algorithms to see whether they
can be useful in comparison to a purely classical computing machine. This is no
doubt a new window for progress in the direction of quantum computation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Hierarchy of the echo state property in quantum reservoir computing</b>—2024-03-05 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02686v2)] Shumpei Kobayashi, Quoc Hoan Tran, Kohei Nakajima


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The echo state property (ESP) represents a fundamental concept in the
reservoir computing (RC) framework that ensures output-only training of
reservoir networks by being agnostic to the initial states and far past inputs.
However, the traditional definition of ESP does not describe possible
non-stationary systems in which statistical properties evolve. To address this
issue, we introduce two new categories of ESP: $\textit{non-stationary ESP}$,
designed for potentially non-stationary systems, and $\textit{subspace/subset
ESP}$, designed for systems whose subsystems have ESP. Following the
definitions, we numerically demonstrate the correspondence between
non-stationary ESP in the quantum reservoir computer (QRC) framework with
typical Hamiltonian dynamics and input encoding methods using non-linear
autoregressive moving-average (NARMA) tasks. We also confirm the correspondence
by computing linear/non-linear memory capacities that quantify input-dependent
components within reservoir states. Our study presents a new understanding of
the practical design of QRC and other possibly non-stationary RC systems in
which non-stationary systems and subsystems are exploited.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Theory of Supervibronic Transitions via Casimir Polaritons</b>—2024-02-06 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04246v2)] Tao E. Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A remote energy transfer pathway from electronic to vibrational degrees of
freedom is identified inside an infrared optical cavity under vibrational
strong coupling conditions. This mechanism relies on the dynamical Casimir
effect, whereby real infrared photons are generated due to a sudden electronic
transition of anisotropic molecules. Moreover, the formation of vibrational
polaritons enables the excited photon energy to be transferred to the
vibrational degrees of freedom before any dissipation occurs. Both analytic
solutions and numerical simulations reveal that the magnitude of this
electronic to vibrational energy transfer depends quadratically on the number
of molecules and resonantly on the vibration-cavity detuning. During this
"supervibronic" transition process, because the vibrational energy gain per
molecule can be meaningful in the macroscopic limit, this process may
potentially be observed using conventional vibrational strong coupling devices.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum dynamics in the self-consistent quadratic approximation</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11327v1)] Frank Ernesto Quintela Rodriguez


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A self-consistent quadratic theory is presented to account for nonlinear
contributions in quantum dynamics. Evolution equations are shown to depend on
higher-order gradients of the Hamiltonian, which are incorporated via their
equations of motion or through perturbative calculations. The dynamics is
proven trace-preserving, with the Hamiltonian acting as a constant of motion
for initial Gaussian states. Nonlinear response functions are calculated
perturbatively, and sufficient conditions are provided for the existence of
their classical limit.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>AQM: A Refresh of the Abstract Qubit Model for Quantum Co-design</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11329v1)] Chenxu Liu, Samuel A. Stein, Muqing Zheng, James Ang, Ang Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Qubits are the fundamental building blocks of quantum information science and
applications, whose concept is widely utilized in both quantum physics and
quantum computation. While the significance of qubits and their implementation
in physical devices have been extensively examined, we posit that now is the
right time to revisit this understanding. In this paper, we introduce an
abstract qubit model (AQM), offering a mathematical framework for higher-level
algorithms and applications, and setting forth criteria for lower-level
physical devices to enable quantum computation. We first provide a
comprehensive definition of "qubits", regarded as the foundational premise for
quantum algorithms (bottom-up support), and examine their requisites for
devices (top-down demand). We then investigate the feasibility of moderating
specific requirements, thereby broadening device support while considering
techniques that tradeoff extra costs to counterbalance this moderation. Lastly,
we delve into the quantum applications that only require incomplete qubits, and
discuss the physical systems having restricted AQM support but are still useful
in quantum applications. AQM may serve as an intermediate interface between
quantum algorithms and devices, facilitating quantum algorithm-device
co-design.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Maximizing information obtainable by quantum sensors through the Quantum Zeno Effect</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11339v1)] Bruno Ronchi, Analia Zwick, Gonzalo A. Alvarez


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Efficient quantum sensing technologies rely on precise control of quantum
sensors, particularly two-level systems or qubits, to optimize estimation
processes. We here exploit the Quantum Zeno Effect (QZE) as a tool for
maximizing information obtainable by quantum sensors, with a specific focus on
the level avoided crossing (LAC) phenomenon in qubit systems. While the
estimation of the LAC energy splitting has been extensively studied, we
emphasize the crucial role that the QZE can play in estimating the coupling
strength. We introduce the concept of information amplification by the QZE for
a LAC system under off-resonant conditions. The proposed approach has
implications for AC magnetic field sensing and the caracterization of complex
systems, including many-spin systems requiring the estimation of spin-spin
couplings. Overall, our findings contribute to the advancement of quantum
sensing by leveraging the QZE for improved control and information extraction.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Principle of Information Increase: An Operational Perspective of Information Gain in the Foundations of Quantum Theory</b>—2023-04-28 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00080v2)] Yang Yu, Philip Goyal


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A measurement performed on a quantum system is an act of gaining information
about its state, a view that is widespread in practical and foundational work
in quantum theory. However, the concept of information in quantum theory
reconstructions is multiply-defined, and its conceptual foundations remain
surprisingly under-explored. In this paper, we investigate the gain of
information in quantum measurements from an operational viewpoint. We show that
the continuous extension of the Shannon entropy naturally admits two distinct
measures of information gain, differential information gain and relative
information gain, and that these have radically different characteristics. In
particular, while differential information gain can increase or decrease as
additional data is acquired, relative information gain consistently grows, and
moreover exhibits asymptotic indifference to the data or choice of Bayesian
prior.
  In order to make a principled choice between these measures, we articulate a
Principle of Information Increase, which incorporates Summhammer's proposal
that more data from measurements leads to more knowledge about the system, and
also takes into consideration black swan events. This principle favors
differential information gain as the more relevant metric in two-outcome
quantum systems, and guides the selection of priors for these information
measures. Finally, we show that, of the beta distribution priors, the Jeffreys'
binomial prior is the prior ensures maximal robustness of information gain to
the particular data sequence obtained in a run of experiments.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Usefulness of adaptive strategies in asymptotic quantum channel discrimination</b>—2020-11-12 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.06569v3)] Farzin Salek, Masahito Hayashi, Andreas Winter


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Adaptiveness is a key principle in information processing including
statistics and machine learning. We investigate the usefulness of adaptive
methods in the framework of asymptotic binary hypothesis testing, when each
hypothesis represents asymptotically many independent instances of a quantum
channel, and the tests are based on using the unknown channel and observing
outputs. Unlike the familiar setting of quantum states as hypotheses, there is
a fundamental distinction between adaptive and non-adaptive strategies with
respect to the channel uses, and we introduce a number of further variants of
the discrimination tasks by imposing different restrictions on the test
strategies. The following results are obtained: (1) We prove that for
classical-quantum channels, adaptive and non-adaptive strategies lead to the
same error exponents both in the symmetric (Chernoff) and asymmetric
(Hoeffding, Stein) settings. (2) The first separation between adaptive and
non-adaptive symmetric hypothesis testing exponents for quantum channels, which
we derive from a general lower bound on the error probability for non-adaptive
strategies; the concrete example we analyze is a pair of entanglement-breaking
channels. (3)We prove, in some sense generalizing the previous statement, that
for general channels adaptive strategies restricted to classical feed-forward
and product state channel inputs are not superior in the asymptotic limit to
non-adaptive product state strategies. (4) As an application of our findings,
we address the discrimination power of an arbitrary quantum channel and show
that adaptive strategies with classical feedback and no quantum memory at the
input do not increase the discrimination power of the channel beyond
non-adaptive tensor product input strategies.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Spin dissymmetry in optical cavities</b>—2024-03-17

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11358v1)] Jefferson Dixon, Zachary N. Mauri, Christopher J. Ciccarino, Priyanuj Bordoloi, Feng Pan, Felipe H. da Jornada, Jennifer Dionne


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We introduce the spin dissymmetry factor, a measure of the spin-selectivity
in the optical transition rate of quantum particles. This spin dissymmetry
factor is valid locally, including at material interfaces and within optical
cavities. We design and numerically demonstrate an optical cavity with
three-fold rotational symmetry that maximizes spin dissymmetry, thereby
minimizing the spin dephasing of a cavity-coupled quantum particle. Our
approach emphasizes the difference between spin and chirality in the nearfield
and reveals a classical parameter for designing more efficient quantum optical
devices.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Classical shadows based on locally-entangled measurements</b>—2023-05-18 (updated: 2024-03-17)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10723v3)] Matteo Ippoliti


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We study classical shadows protocols based on randomized measurements in
$n$-qubit entangled bases, generalizing the random Pauli measurement protocol
($n = 1$). We show that entangled measurements ($n\geq 2$) enable nontrivial
and potentially advantageous trade-offs in the sample complexity of learning
Pauli expectation values. This is sharply illustrated by shadows based on
two-qubit Bell measurements: the scaling of sample complexity with Pauli weight
$k$ improves quadratically (from $\sim 3^k$ down to $\sim 3^{k/2}$) for many
operators, while others become impossible to learn. Tuning the amount of
entanglement in the measurement bases defines a family of protocols that
interpolate between Pauli and Bell shadows, retaining some of the benefits of
both. For large $n$, we show that randomized measurements in $n$-qubit GHZ
bases further improve the best scaling to $\sim (3/2)^k$, albeit on an
increasingly restricted set of operators. Despite their simplicity and lower
hardware requirements, these protocols can match or outperform
recently-introduced "shallow shadows" in some practically-relevant Pauli
estimation tasks.
 </details>

## Monday | 2024-03-18

<details> <summary> <b>Alternant Hydrocarbon Diradicals as Optically Addressable Molecular Qubits</b>—2024-03-14 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09102v2)] Yong Rui Poh, Dmitry Morozov, Nathanael P. Kazmierczak, Ryan G. Hadt, Gerrit Groenhof, Joel Yuen-Zhou


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  High-spin molecules allow for bottom-up qubit design and are promising
platforms for magnetic sensing and quantum information science. Optical
addressability of molecular electron spins has also been proposed in first-row
transition metal complexes via optically-detected magnetic resonance (ODMR)
mechanisms analogous to the diamond-NV colour centre. However, significantly
less progress has been made on the front of metal-free molecules, which can
deliver lower costs and milder environmental impacts. At present, most
luminescent open-shell organic molecules are $\pi$-diradicals, but such systems
often suffer from poor ground-state open-shell characters necessary to realise
a stable ground-state molecular qubit. In this work, we use alternancy symmetry
to selectively minimise radical-radical interactions in the ground state,
generating $\pi$-systems with high diradical characters. We call them m-dimers,
referencing the need to covalently link two benzylic radicals at their meta
carbon atoms for the desired symmetry. Through a detailed electronic structure
analysis, we find that the excited states of alternant hydrocarbon m-diradicals
contain important symmetries that can be used to construct ODMR mechanisms
leading to ground-state spin polarisation. The molecular parameters are set in
the context of a tris(2,4,6-trichlorophenyl)methyl (TTM) radical dimer
covalently tethered at the meta position, demonstrating the feasibility of
alternant m-diradicals as molecular colour centres.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Stochastic Quantum Dynamics Stabilization: A Lyapunov-Based Control Approach with Homodyne-Mediated Filtering</b>—2024-03-09 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07021v2)] Nahid Binandeh Dehaghani, A. Pedro Aguiar, Rafal Wisniewski


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Efficient control of stochastic dynamics in quantum systems is pivotal for
various applications, including quantum information processing and metrology.
This paper introduces a Lyapunov-based control approach with homodyne-mediated
filtering. We employ a modified extended Kalman filtering method to directly
estimate the evolution of the quantum density operator $\rho$, considering
sequential homodyne current measurements. Our method explicitly addresses the
dynamics of a stochastic master equation with correlated noise, ensuring by
construction the quantum properties of the estimated state variable $\hat\rho$.
Moreover, our proposed switching based Lyapunov control scheme that is fed with
$\hat\rho$, guarantees noise-to-state practically stable in probability of the
desired stationary target set with respect to the estimation error variance. We
demonstrate our approach's efficacy in stabilizing a qubit coupled to a leaky
cavity under homodyne detection.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Scalable and programmable quantum computing platform for optical non-Gaussian input states</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11404v1)] Takato Yoshida, Daichi Okuno, Takahiro Kashiwazaki, Takeshi Umeki, Shigehito Miki, Fumihiro China, Masahiro Yabuno, Hirotaka Terai, Shuntaro Takeda


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum computing has been pursued with various hardware platforms, and an
optical system is one of the most reasonable choices for large-scale
computation. In the optical continuous-variable computation scheme, the
incorporation of Gaussian gates and a highly non-classical non-Gaussian state
enables universal quantum computation. Although basic technologies for Gaussian
gates and non-Gaussian state generations have long been developed, these
building blocks have not yet been integrated in a scalable fashion. Here, we
integrate them to develop a scalable and programmable optical quantum computing
platform that can sequentially perform an essential Gaussian gate, the
squeezing gate, on a non-Gaussian input state. The key enablers are a
loop-based optical circuit with dynamical and programmable controllability and
its time-synchronization with the probabilistic non-Gaussian state generation.
We verify the deterministic, programmable, and repeatable quantum gates on a
typical non-Gaussian state by implementing up to three-step gates. The gates
implemented are so high-quality that strong evidence of the states'
non-classicalities, negativities of the Wigner functions, are preserved even
after multistep gates. This platform is compatible with other non-Gaussian
states and realizes large-scale universal quantum computing by incorporating
other existing processing technologies.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Neural network representation of quantum systems</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11420v1)] Koji Hashimoto, Yuji Hirono, Jun Maeda, Jojiro Totsuka-Yoshinaka


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  It has been proposed that random wide neural networks near Gaussian process
are quantum field theories around Gaussian fixed points. In this paper, we
provide a novel map with which a wide class of quantum mechanical systems can
be cast into the form of a neural network with a statistical summation over
network parameters. Our simple idea is to use the universal approximation
theorem of neural networks to generate arbitrary paths in the Feynman's path
integral. The map can be applied to interacting quantum systems / field
theories, even away from the Gaussian limit. Our findings bring machine
learning closer to the quantum world.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Efficient preparation of the AKLT State with Measurement-based Imaginary Time Evolution</b>—2023-10-09 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06031v2)] Tianqi Chen, Tim Byrnes


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum state preparation plays a crucial role in several areas of quantum
information science, in applications such as quantum simulation, quantum
metrology and quantum computing. However, typically state preparation requires
resources that scale exponentially with the problem size, due to their
probabilistic nature or otherwise, making studying such models challenging. In
this article, we propose a method to prepare the ground state of the
Affleck-Lieb-Kennedy-Tasaki (AKLT) model deterministically using an
measurement-based imaginary time evolution (MITE) approach. By taking advantage
of the special properties of the AKLT state, we show that it can be prepared
efficiently using the MITE approach. Estimates based on the convergence of a
sequence of local projections, as well as direct evolution of the MITE
algorithm suggest a constant scaling with respect to the number of AKLT sites,
which is an exponential improvement over the naive estimate for conveargence.
We show that the procedure is compatible with qubit-based simulators, and show
that using a variational quantum algorithm for circuit recompilation, the
measurement operator required for MITE can be well approximated by a circuit
with a much shallower circuit depth compared with the one obtained using the
default Qiskit method.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Clustering theorem in 1D long-range interacting systems at arbitrary temperatures</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11431v1)] Yusuke Kimura, Tomotaka Kuwahara


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  This paper delves into a fundamental aspect of quantum statistical mechanics
-- the absence of thermal phase transitions in one-dimensional (1D) systems.
Originating from Ising's analysis of the 1D spin chain, this concept has been
pivotal in understanding 1D quantum phases, especially those with finite-range
interactions as extended by Araki. In this work, we focus on quantum long-range
interactions and successfully derive a clustering theorem applicable to a wide
range of interaction decays at arbitrary temperatures. This theorem applies to
any interaction forms that decay faster than $r^{-2}$ and does not rely on
translation invariance or infinite system size assumptions. Also, we rigorously
established that the temperature dependence of the correlation length is given
by $e^{{\rm const.} \beta}$, which is the same as the classical cases. Our
findings indicate the absence of phase transitions in 1D systems with
super-polynomially decaying interactions, thereby expanding upon previous
theoretical research. To overcome significant technical challenges originating
from the divergence of the imaginary-time Lieb-Robinson bound, we utilize the
quantum belief propagation to refine the cluster expansion method. This
approach allowed us to address divergence issues effectively and contributed to
a deeper understanding of low-temperature behaviors in 1D quantum systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Measuring Quantum Information Leakage Under Detection Threat</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11433v1)] Farhad Farokhi, Sejeong Kim


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Gentle quantum leakage is proposed as a measure of information leakage to
arbitrary eavesdroppers that aim to avoid detection. Gentle (also sometimes
referred to as weak or non-demolition) measurements are used to encode the
desire of the eavesdropper to evade detection. The gentle quantum leakage meets
important axioms proposed for measures of information leakage including
positivity, independence, and unitary invariance. Global depolarizing noise, an
important family of physical noise in quantum devices, is shown to reduce
gentle quantum leakage (and hence can be used as a mechanism to ensure privacy
or security). A lower bound for the gentle quantum leakage based on asymmetric
approximate cloning is presented. This lower bound relates information leakage
to mutual incompatibility of quantum states. A numerical example, based on the
encoding in the celebrated BB84 quantum key distribution algorithm, is used to
demonstrate the results.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Geometric phase for a nonstatic coherent light-wave: nonlinear evolution harmonized with the dynamical phase</b>—2024-01-23 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12560v2)] Jeong Ryeol Choi


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Properties of the geometric phase for a nonstatic coherent light-wave arisen
in a static environment are analyzed from various angles. The geometric phase
varies in a regular nonlinear way, where the center of its variation increases
constantly with time. This consequence is due to the effects of the periodic
wave collapse and expansion on the evolution of the geometric phase.
Harmonization of such a geometric-phase evolution with the dynamical phase
makes the total phase evolve with a unique pattern that depends on the degree
of nonstaticity. The total phase exhibits a peculiar behavior for the case of
extreme nonstaticity, which is that it precipitates periodically in its
evolution, owing to a strong response of the geometric phase to the wave
nonstaticity. It is confirmed that the geometric phase in the coherent state is
mostly more prominent compared to that in the Fock states. For a simple case
where the wave nonstaticity disappears, our description of the geometric phase
recovers to the well-known conventional one which no longer undergoes
periodical change. While the familiar dynamical phase is just related to the
expectation value of the Hamiltonian, the geometric phase that we have managed
reflects a delicate nonstaticity difference in the evolution of quantum states.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Experimental Quantum Byzantine Agreement on a Three-User Quantum Network with Integrated Photonics</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11441v1)] Xu Jing, Cheng Qian, Chen-Xun Weng, Bing-Hong Li, Zhe Chen, Chen-Quan Wang, Jie Tang, Xiao-Wen Gu, Yue-Chan Kong, Tang-Sheng Chen, Hua-Lei Yin, Dong Jiang, Bin Niu, Liang-Liang Lu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum communication networks are crucial for both secure communication and
cryptographic networked tasks. Building quantum communication networks in a
scalable and cost-effective way is essential for their widespread adoption,
among which a stable and miniaturized high-quality quantum light source is a
key component. Here, we establish a complete polarization entanglement-based
fully connected network, which features an ultrabright integrated Bragg
reflection waveguide quantum source, managed by an untrusted service provider,
and a streamlined polarization analysis module, which requires only one
single-photon detector for each end user. We perform a continuously working
quantum entanglement distribution and create correlated bit strings between
users. Within the framework of one-time universal hashing, we provide the first
experimental implementation of source-independent quantum digital signatures
using imperfect keys circumventing the necessity for private amplification.
More importantly, we further beat the 1/3 fault-tolerance bound in Byzantine
agreement, achieving unconditional security without relying on sophisticated
techniques. Our results offer an affordable and practical route for addressing
consensus challenges within the emerging quantum network landscape.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Entanglement Microscopy: Tomography and Entanglement Measures via Quantum Monte Carlo</b>—2024-02-22 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14916v2)] Ting-Tung Wang, Menghan Song, Liuke Lyu, William Witczak-Krempa, Zi Yang Meng


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We develop a protocol, dubbed entanglement microscopy, to obtain the full
reduced density matrix associated with subregions in quantum Monte Carlo
simulations for bosonic and fermionic manybody systems. Our microscopy allows
to perform quantum state tomography, and thus gives access to true entanglement
measures, such as the logarithmic negativity (LN). We exemplify our method by
studying the phase diagram near quantum critical points (QCP) in 2 spatial
dimensions: the transverse field Ising model and a Gross-Neveu-Yukawa
transition of Dirac fermions. Our main results are: i) the Ising QCP exhibits
short-range entanglement with a finite sudden death of the LN both in space and
temperature; ii) the Gross-Neveu QCP has a power-law decaying fermionic LN
consistent with conformal field theory (CFT) exponents; iii) going beyond
bipartite entanglement, we find no detectable 3-party entanglement in a large
parameter window near the Ising QCP in 2d, in contrast to 1d. We also
analytically obtain the large-temperature power law scaling of the fermionic LN
for general interacting systems. Our approach allows one to perform quantum
state tomography locally in a way that is analogous to atomic-scale imaging
with a scanning tunneling microscope. Controlled entanglement microscopy opens
a new window into quantum matter, with countless systems waiting to be
explored.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Filter-free high-performance single photon emission from a quantum dot in a Fabry-Perot microcavity</b>—2024-02-18 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11623v2)] Zhixuan Rao, Jiawei Yang, Changkun Song, Mujie Rao, Ziyang Zheng, Luyu Liu, Xuebin Peng, Ying Yu, Siyuan Yu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Combining resonant excitation with Purcell-enhanced single quantum dots (QDs)
stands out as a prominent strategy for realizing high performance solid-state
single photon sources. However, optimizing photon efficiency requires
addressing challenges associated with effectively separating the excitation
laser from QDs' emission. Traditionally, this involves polarization filtering,
which limits the achievable polarization directions and the scalability of
photonic states. In this study, we have successfully tackled this challenge by
employing spatially-orthogonal resonant excitation of QDs, deterministically
coupled to monolithic Fabry-Perot microcavities. Leveraging the membrane cavity
structures, we have achieved filter-free single photon resonant fluorescence.
The resulting source produces single photons with a simultaneous high
extraction efficiency of 0.87, purity of 0.9045(4), and indistinguishability of
0.963(4).
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum Expander Mixing Lemma and its Converse</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11454v1)] Ning Ning


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Expander graphs are fundamental in both computer science and mathematics,
with a wide array of applications. With quantum technology reshaping our world,
quantum expanders have emerged, finding numerous uses in quantum information
theory. The classical expander mixing lemma plays a central role in graph
theory, offering essential insights into edge distribution within graphs and
aiding in the analysis of diverse network properties and algorithms. This paper
establishes the quantum analogue of the classical expander mixing lemma and its
converse for quantum expanders.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum Scissor from Exact Generalized Photon Number Statistics</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11466v1)] Abdul Q. Batin, Suranjana Ghosh, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, Utpal Roy


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We report the close form expressions of the photon number statistics for a
generalized coherent state and a generalized photon-added coherent state, which
are shown to be crucial for proposing a variety of quantum scissor operations.
The analytically obtained distributions are also capable of predicting the
precise laser intensity windows for realizing a variety of quantum scissors.
Truncating a photon added state overcomes the selection rule of obtaining the
lower order Fock states. Photon addition also enables us to obtain a higher
order Fock state in a lower order superposition. The importance of circular
geometry is also demonstrated for engineering such quantum scissors.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Genuine N-partite entanglement in Schwarzschild-de Sitter black hole spacetime</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11476v1)] Shu-Min Wu, Xiao-Wei Teng, Xiao-Li Huang, Jianbo Lu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Complex quantum information tasks in a gravitational background require
multipartite entanglement for effective processing. Therefore, it is necessary
to investigate the properties of multipartite entanglement in a relativistic
setting. In this paper, we study genuine N-partite entanglement of massless
Dirac fields in the Schwarzschild-de Sitter (SdS) spacetime, characterized by
the presence of a black hole event horizon (BEH) and a cosmological event
horizon (CEH). We obtain the general analytical expression of genuine N-partite
entanglement shared by n observers near BEH and m (n+m = N) observers near CEH.
It is shown that genuine N-partite entanglement monotonically decreases with
the decrease of the mass of the black hole, suggesting that the Hawking effect
of the black hole destroys quantum entanglement. It is interesting to note that
genuine N-partite entanglement is a non-monotonic function of the cosmological
constant, meaning that the Hawking effect of the expanding universe can enhance
quantum entanglement. This result contrasts with multipartite entanglement in
single-event horizon spacetime, offering a new perspective on the Hawking
effect in multi-event horizon spacetime.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Partitioned Quantum Subspace Expansion</b>—2024-03-13 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08868v2)] Tom O'Leary, Lewis W. Anderson, Dieter Jaksch, Martin Kiffner


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present an iterative generalisation of the quantum subspace expansion
algorithm used with a Krylov basis. The iterative construction connects a
sequence of subspaces via their lowest energy states. Diagonalising a
Hamiltonian in a given Krylov subspace requires the same quantum resources in
both the single step and sequential cases. We propose a variance-based
criterion for determining a good iterative sequence and provide numerical
evidence that these good sequences display improved numerical stability over a
single step in the presence of finite sampling noise. Implementing the
generalisation requires additional classical processing with a polynomial
overhead in the subspace dimension. By exchanging quantum circuit depth for
additional measurements the quantum subspace expansion algorithm appears to be
an approach suited to near term or early error-corrected quantum hardware. Our
work suggests that the numerical instability limiting the accuracy of this
approach can be substantially alleviated beyond the current state of the art.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Measurement-Based Quantum Approximate Optimization</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11514v1)] Tobias Stollenwerk, Stuart Hadfield


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Parameterized quantum circuits are attractive candidates for potential
quantum advantage in the near term and beyond. At the same time, as quantum
computing hardware not only continues to improve but also begins to incorporate
new features such as mid-circuit measurement and adaptive control,
opportunities arise for innovative algorithmic paradigms. In this work we focus
on measurement-based quantum computing protocols for approximate optimization,
in particular related to quantum alternating operator ans\"atze (QAOA), a
popular quantum circuit model approach to combinatorial optimization. For the
construction and analysis of our measurement-based protocols we demonstrate
that diagrammatic approaches, specifically ZX-calculus and its extensions, are
effective for adapting such algorithms to the measurement-based setting. In
particular we derive measurement patterns for applying QAOA to the broad and
important class of QUBO problems. We further outline how for constrained
optimization, hard problem constraints may be directly incorporated into our
protocol to guarantee the feasibility of the solution found and avoid the need
for dealing with penalties. Finally we discuss the resource requirements and
tradeoffs of our approach to that of more traditional quantum circuits.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A simplified Mølmer-Sørensen gate for the trapped ion quantum computer</b>—2021-12-15 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.07855v4)] Hiroo Azuma


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We discuss how to simplify the Molmer-Sorensen (MS) gate which is used for
the trapped ion quantum computer. The original MS gate is implemented by
illuminating two ions with bichromatic coherent light fields separately at the
same time. In this paper, we propose a method for transforming a separable
state of two ions into one of the Bell states by illuminating the two ions with
monochromatic coherent light fields individually and this point is the
advantage of our scheme over the original MS gate. The length of the execution
time of our proposed gate is comparable to that of the original MS gate,
however, numerical calculations show that our proposed gate is weakly sensitive
to thermal fluctuations of the phonons. By giving another example of a simple
two-ion gate that can generate entanglement but is strongly vulnerable to
thermal fluctuations, we show that our simplified MS gate is more marked than
usual.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Adiabatic Bottlenecks in Quantum Annealing and Nonequilibrium Dynamics of Paramagnons</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11548v1)] Tim Bode, Frank K. Wilhelm


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The correspondence between long-range interacting quantum spin glasses and
combinatorial optimization problems underpins the physical motivation for
adiabatic quantum computing. On one hand, in disordered (quantum) spin systems,
the focus is on exact methods such as the replica trick that allow the
calculation of system quantities in the limit of infinite system and ensemble
size. On the other hand, when solving a given instance of an optimization
problem, disorder-averaged quantities are of no relevance, as one is solely
interested in instance-specific, finite-size properties, in particular the true
solution. Here, we apply the nonequilibrium Green-function formalism to the
spin coherent-state path integral to obtain the statistical fluctuations and
the collective-excitation spectrum along the annealing path. For the example of
the quantum Sherrington-Kirkpatrick spin glass, by comparing to extensive
numerically exact results, we show that this method provides access to the
instance-specific bottlenecks of the annealing protocol.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Communication protocols and QECCs from the perspective of TQFT, Part I: Constructing LOCC protocols and QECCs from TQFTs</b>—2023-03-29 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.16461v2)] Chris Fields, James F. Glazebrook, Antonino Marciano


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Topological quantum field theories (TQFTs) provide a general,
minimal-assumption language for describing quantum-state preparation and
measurement. They therefore provide a general language in which to express
multi-agent communication protocols, e.g. local operations, classical
communication (LOCC) protocols. Here we construct LOCC protocols using TQFT,
and show that LOCC protocols generically induce quantum error-correcting codes
(QECCs). Using multi-observer scenarios described by quantum Darwinism and
Bell/EPR experiments as examples, we show how these LOCC-induced QECCs
effectively convert entanglement into classical redundancy. In the accompanying
Part II, we show that such QECCs can be regarded as implementing, or inducing
the emergence of, spacetimes on the boundaries between interacting systems. We
investigate this connection between inter-agent communication and spacetime
using BF and Chern-Simons theories, and then using topological M-theory.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>High-Fidelity Entangling Gates for Electron and Nuclear Spin Qubits in Diamond</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11553v1)] Regina Finsterhoelzl, Wolf-Rüdiger Hannes, Guido Burkard


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Motivated by the recent experimental progress in exploring the use of a
nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond as a quantum computing platform, we
propose schemes for fast and high-fidelity entangling gates on this platform.
Using both analytical and numerical calculations, we demonstrate that
synchronization effects between resonant and off-resonant transitions may be
exploited such that spin-flip errors due to strong driving may be eliminated by
adjusting the gate time or the driving field. This allows for fast, high
fidelity entangling operations between the electron spin and one or several
nuclear spins. We investigate a two-qubit system where the NV center is
comprised of a $^{15}$N atom and a qubit-qutrit system for the case of a
$^{14}$N atom. In both cases, we predict a complete suppression of off-resonant
driving errors for two-qubit gates when addressing the NV electron spin
conditioned on states of nuclear spins of the nitrogen atom of the defect.
Additionally, we predict fidelities $>0.99$ for multi-qubit gates when
including the surrounding $^{13}$C atoms in the diamond lattice in the
conditioned logic.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Learning t-doped stabilizer states</b>—2023-05-24 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15398v4)] Lorenzo Leone, Salvatore F. E. Oliviero, Alioscia Hamma


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this paper, we present a learning algorithm aimed at learning states
obtained from computational basis states by Clifford circuits doped with a
finite number $t$ of $T$-gates. The algorithm learns an exact tomographic
description of $t$-doped stabilizer states in terms of Pauli observables. This
is possible because such states are countable and form a discrete set. To
tackle the problem, we introduce a novel algebraic framework for $t$-doped
stabilizer states, which extends beyond $T$-gates and includes doping with any
kind of local non-Clifford gate. The algorithm requires resources of complexity
$\text{poly}(n,2^t)$ and exhibits an exponentially small probability of
failure.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Variable Hyperparameterized Gaussian Kernel using Displaced Squeezed Vacuum State</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11560v1)] Vivek Mehta, Utpal Roy


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  There are schemes for realizing different types of kernels by quantum states
of light. It is particularly interesting to realize the Gaussian kernel due to
its wider applicability. A multimode coherent state can generate the Gaussian
kernel with a constant value of hyperparameter. This constant hyperparameter
has limited the application of the Gaussian kernel when it is applied to
complex learning problems. We realize the variable hyperparameterized Gaussian
kernel with a multimode-displaced squeezed vacuum state. The learning capacity
of this kernel is tested with the support vector machines over some synthesized
data sets as well as public benchmark data sets. We establish that the proposed
variable hyperparameterized Gaussian kernel offers better accuracy over the
constant Gaussian kernel.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Multi-GPU-Enabled Hybrid Quantum-Classical Workflow in Quantum-HPC Middleware: Applications in Quantum Simulations</b>—2024-03-09 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05828v2)] Kuan-Cheng Chen, Xiaoren Li, Xiaotian Xu, Yun-Yuan Wang, Chen-Yu Liu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Achieving high-performance computation on quantum systems presents a
formidable challenge that necessitates bridging the capabilities between
quantum hardware and classical computing resources. This study introduces an
innovative distribution-aware Quantum-Classical-Quantum (QCQ) architecture,
which integrates cutting-edge quantum software framework works with
high-performance classical computing resources to address challenges in quantum
simulation for materials and condensed matter physics. At the heart of this
architecture is the seamless integration of VQE algorithms running on QPUs for
efficient quantum state preparation, Tensor Network states, and QCNNs for
classifying quantum states on classical hardware.
  For benchmarking quantum simulators, the QCQ architecture utilizes the
cuQuantum SDK to leverage multi-GPU acceleration, integrated with PennyLane's
Lightning plugin, demonstrating up to tenfold increases in computational speed
for complex phase transition classification tasks compared to traditional
CPU-based methods. This significant acceleration enables models such as the
transverse field Ising and XXZ systems to accurately predict phase transitions
with a 99.5% accuracy. The architecture's ability to distribute computation
between QPUs and classical resources addresses critical bottlenecks in
Quantum-HPC, paving the way for scalable quantum simulation.
  The QCQ framework embodies a synergistic combination of quantum algorithms,
machine learning, and Quantum-HPC capabilities, enhancing its potential to
provide transformative insights into the behavior of quantum systems across
different scales. As quantum hardware continues to improve, this hybrid
distribution-aware framework will play a crucial role in realizing the full
potential of quantum computing by seamlessly integrating distributed quantum
resources with the state-of-the-art classical computing infrastructure.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Optimal Layout Synthesis for Deep Quantum Circuits on NISQ Processors with 100+ Qubits</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11598v1)] Irfansha Shaik, Jaco van de Pol


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Layout synthesis is mapping a quantum circuit to a quantum processor. SWAP
gate insertions are needed for scheduling 2-qubit gates only on connected
physical qubits. With the ever-increasing number of qubits in NISQ processors,
scalable layout synthesis is of utmost importance. With large optimality gaps
observed in heuristic approaches, scalable exact methods are needed. While
recent exact and near-optimal approaches scale to moderate circuits, large deep
circuits are still out of scope.
  In this work, we propose a SAT encoding based on parallel plans that apply 1
SWAP and a group of CNOTs at each time step. Using domain-specific information,
we maintain optimality in parallel plans while scaling to large and deep
circuits. From our results, we show the scalability of our approach which
significantly outperforms leading exact and near-optimal approaches (up to
100x). For the first time, we can optimally map several 8, 14, and 16 qubit
circuits onto 54, 80, and 127 qubit platforms with up to 17 SWAPs. While adding
optimal SWAPs, we also report near-optimal depth in our mapped circuits.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Current and efficiency of bosonic systems interacting with two thermal reservoirs</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12112v1)] Jayarshi Bhattacharya, Sunandan Gangopadhyay, Gautam Gangopadhyay


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  This paper investigates the dynamics of current and efficiency in a bosonic
system consisting of a central system interacting with two reservoirs at
different temperatures. We derive a master equation describing the time
evolution of the density matrix of the system, accounting for the interactions
and energy transfer between the components. We quantify the current,
representing the flow of bosons through the system and analyse its dependence
on the system's parameters and temperatures of the thermal reservoirs. In the
steady state regime, we derived an expression for the efficiency of the energy
transfer process. Our analysis show that quantum effects, such as the
dependence on temperature and the quantum correction factor, can significantly
impact energy transfer efficiency. In particular, we observe that at high
temperatures, the efficiency of the quantum system is greater than the Carnot
efficiency. The insights gained from this analysis may have implications in
various fields, including quantum computing and energy harvesting, where
optimising energy utilisation is crucial.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A tree-approach Pauli decomposition algorithm with application to quantum computing</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11644v1)] Océane Koska, Marc Baboulin, Arnaud Gazda


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Pauli matrices are 2-by-2 matrices that are very useful in quantum
computing. They can be used as elementary gates in quantum circuits but also to
decompose any matrix of $\mathbb{C}^{2^n \times 2^n}$ as a linear combination
of tensor products of the Pauli matrices. However, the computational cost of
this decomposition is potentially very expensive since it can be exponential in
$n$. In this paper, we propose an algorithm with a parallel implementation that
optimizes this decomposition using a tree approach to avoid redundancy in the
computation while using a limited memory footprint. We also explain how some
particular matrix structures can be exploited to reduce the number of
operations. We provide numerical experiments to evaluate the sequential and
parallel performance of our decomposition algorithm and we illustrate how this
algorithm can be applied to encode matrices in a quantum memory.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Many-body quantum heat engines based on free-fermion systems</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11645v1)] Vincenzo Roberto Arezzo, Davide Rossini, Giulia Piccitto


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We study the performances of an imperfect quantum many-body Otto engine based
on free-fermion systems. Starting from the thermodynamic definitions of heat
and work along ideal isothermal, adiabatic, and isochoric transformations, we
generalize these expressions in the case when the hypotheses of ideality are
relaxed (i.e., nonperfect thermalization with the external baths, as well as
nonperfect quantum adiabaticity in the unitary dynamic protocols). These
results are used to evaluate the work and the power delivered by an imperfect
quantum many-body heat engine in a finite time, whose working substance is
constituted by a quantum Ising chain in a transverse field: We discuss the
emerging optimal working points as functions of the various model parameters.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum density estimation with density matrices: Application to quantum anomaly detection</b>—2022-01-24 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.10006v5)] Diego H. Useche, Oscar A. Bustos-Brinez, Joseph A. Gallego-Mejia, Fabio A. González


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Density estimation is a central task in statistics and machine learning. This
problem aims to determine the underlying probability density function that best
aligns with an observed data set. Some of its applications include statistical
inference, unsupervised learning, and anomaly detection. Despite its relevance,
few works have explored the application of quantum computing to density
estimation. In this article, we present a novel quantum-classical density
matrix density estimation model, called Q-DEMDE, based on the expected values
of density matrices and a novel quantum embedding called quantum Fourier
features. The method uses quantum hardware to build probability distributions
of training data via mixed quantum states. As a core subroutine, we propose a
new algorithm to estimate the expected value of a mixed density matrix from its
spectral decomposition on a quantum computer. In addition, we present an
application of the method for quantum-classical anomaly detection. We evaluated
the density estimation model with quantum random and quantum adaptive Fourier
features on different data sets on a quantum simulator and a real quantum
computer. An important result of this work is to show that it is possible to
perform density estimation and anomaly detection with high performance on
present-day quantum computers.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Retrieval of photon statistics from click detection</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11673v1)] Suchitra Krishnaswamy, Fabian Schule, Laura Ares, Vladyslav Dyachuk, Michael Stefszky, Benjamin Brecht, Christine Silberhorn, Jan Sperling


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We utilize click-counting theory for the reconstruction of photon statistics.
Our approach employs an analytic pseudo-inversion method to estimate photon
counts from measured click counts. A reconfigurable time-bin multiplexing,
click-counting detector is set up that renders it possible to alter the
photon-number resolution as needed. A detector tomography is carried out,
yielding vital measurement features, such as quantum efficiencies, cross-talk
rates, etc. We gauge the success of the pseudo-inversion by applying the Mandel
and binomial parameters, resulting in an additional interpretation of these
parameters for the discrimination of distinct quantum statistics. In addition,
we apply a loss deconvolution technique to account for detection losses.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Scalable Quantum State Tomography with Locally Purified Density Operators and Local Measurements</b>—2023-07-31 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16381v2)] Yuchen Guo, Shuo Yang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Understanding quantum systems is of significant importance for assessing the
performance of quantum hardware and software, as well as exploring quantum
control and quantum sensing. An efficient representation of quantum states
enables realizing quantum state tomography with minimal measurements. In this
study, we propose a new approach to state tomography that uses tensor network
representations of mixed states through locally purified density operators and
employs a classical data postprocessing algorithm requiring only local
measurements. Through numerical simulations of one-dimensional pure and mixed
states and two-dimensional pure states up to size $8\times 8$, we demonstrate
the efficiency, accuracy, and robustness of our proposed methods. Experiments
on the IBM and Quafu Quantum platforms complement these numerical simulations.
Our study opens new avenues in quantum state tomography for two-dimensional
systems using tensor network formalism.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>BCQQ: Batch-Constraint Quantum Q-Learning with Cyclic Data Re-uploading</b>—2023-04-27 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00905v2)] Maniraman Periyasamy, Marc Hölle, Marco Wiedmann, Daniel D. Scherer, Axel Plinge, Christopher Mutschler


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) often requires a large number of data and
environment interactions, making the training process time-consuming. This
challenge is further exacerbated in the case of batch RL, where the agent is
trained solely on a pre-collected dataset without environment interactions.
Recent advancements in quantum computing suggest that quantum models might
require less data for training compared to classical methods. In this paper, we
investigate this potential advantage by proposing a batch RL algorithm that
utilizes VQC as function approximators within the discrete batch-constraint
deep Q-learning (BCQ) algorithm. Additionally, we introduce a novel data
re-uploading scheme by cyclically shifting the order of input variables in the
data encoding layers. We evaluate the efficiency of our algorithm on the OpenAI
CartPole environment and compare its performance to the classical neural
network-based discrete BCQ.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Measurement-induced phase transition for free fermions above one dimension</b>—2023-09-21 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12405v3)] Igor Poboiko, Igor V. Gornyi, Alexander D. Mirlin


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A theory of the measurement-induced entanglement phase transition for
free-fermion models in $d>1$ dimensions is developed. The critical point
separates a gapless phase with $\ell^{d-1} \ln \ell$ scaling of the second
cumulant of the particle number and of the entanglement entropy and an area-law
phase with $\ell^{d-1}$ scaling, where $\ell$ is a size of the subsystem. The
problem is mapped onto an SU($R$) replica non-linear sigma model in $d+1$
dimensions, with $R\to 1$. Using renormalization-group analysis, we calculate
critical indices in one-loop approximation justified for $d = 1+ \epsilon$ with
$\epsilon \ll 1$. Further, we carry out a numerical study of the transition for
a $d=2$ model on a square lattice, determine numerically the critical point,
and estimate the critical index of the correlation length, $\nu \approx 1.4$.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Tight concentration inequalities for quantum adversarial setups exploiting permutation symmetry</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11719v1)] Takaya Matsuura, Shinichiro Yamano, Yui Kuramochi, Toshihiko Sasaki, Masato Koashi


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We developed new concentration inequalities for a quantum state on an
$N$-qudit system or measurement outcomes on it that apply to an adversarial
setup, where an adversary prepares the quantum state. Our one-sided
concentration inequalities for a quantum state require the $N$-qudit system to
be permutation invariant and are thus de-Finetti type, but they are tighter
than the one previously obtained. We show that the bound can further be
tightened if each qudit system has an additional symmetry. Furthermore, our
concentration inequality for the outcomes of independent and identical
measurements on an $N$-qudit quantum system has no assumption on the
adversarial quantum state and is much tighter than the conventional one
obtained through Azuma's inequality. We numerically demonstrate the tightness
of our bounds in simple quantum information processing tasks.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Super-resolution of ultrafast pulses via spectral inversion</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12746v1)] Michał Lipka, Michał Parniak


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The resolution limits of classical spectroscopy can be surpassed by
quantum-inspired methods leveraging the information contained in the phase of
the complex electromagnetic field. Their counterpart in spatial imaging has
been widely discussed and demonstrated; however, the spectral-domain
implementations are few and scarce. We experimentally demonstrate a
spectroscopic super-resolution method aimed at broadband light (10s to 100s of
GHz), and based on the spectral-domain analog of image inversion
interferometry. In a proof-of-principle experiment, we study the paradigmatic
problem of estimating a small separation between two incoherent spectral
features of equal brightness, with a small number of photons per coherence
time. On the grounds of asymptotic estimation theory, more than a $2$-fold
improvement over the spectral direct imaging is demonstrated in terms of
required resources (photons) for a given estimator variance. The setup is based
on an actively stabilized Mach-Zehnder-type interferometer with electro-optic
time lenses and passive spectral dispersers implementing the inversion. As
such, the method promises on-chip integration, good scalability, and further
applications e.g. for mode sorting.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Ground-state chiral current via periodic modulation</b>—2024-03-11 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06688v2)] Shuyue Wang, Wuji Zhang, Chunfang Sun, Chunfeng Wu, Gangcheng Wang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this study, we engineer the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction mediated by
photons to emulate ground-state chiral current based on three-level atoms
driven by quantum and classical fields. We employ adiabatic elimination
techniques to derive an effective Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction Hamiltonian
of two-level systems, which can address the challenges arising from the finite
lifetime of excited states. Furthermore, we can ensure to achieve desired
dynamics through the implementation of periodic modulation on the atomic ground
states. Besides, three-state and multi-state chiral current can be obtained by
choosing appropriate driving frequencies and phases. We also design the
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction for the other components based on a toggling
frame. The numerical simulation results further indicate that our proposal can
generate a perfectly reliable ground-state chiral current and open up
possibilities for quantum state transfer and the development of future quantum
networks.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>mqdtfit: A collection of Python functions for empirical multichannel quantum defect calculations</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11783v1)] R. M. Potvliege


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Python functions distributed with this article can be used for
calculating the parameters of multichannel quantum defect theory models
describing excited bound states of complex atoms. These parameters are obtained
by fitting a model to experimental data provided by the user. The two main
formulations of the theory are supported, namely the one in which the
parameters of the model are a set of eigen channel quantum defects and a
transformation matrix, and the one where these parameters are the elements of a
reactance matrix. The distribution includes programs for calculating
theoretical energy levels, calculating mixing coefficients and channel
fractions and producing Lu-Fano plots.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Parsing skin effect in a non-Hermitian spinless BHZ-like model</b>—2023-04-25 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.12723v2)] Dipendu Halder, Saurabh Basu


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  This work comprehensively investigates the non-Hermitian skin effect (NHSE)
in a spinless Bernevig-Hughes-Zhang (BHZ)-like model in one dimension. It is
generally believed that a system with non-reciprocal hopping amplitudes
demonstrates NHSE. However, we show that there are exceptions, and more
in-depth analyses are required to decode the presence of NHSE or its variants
in a system. The fascinating aspects of our findings, depending on the
inclusion of non-reciprocity in the inter-orbital hopping terms, concede the
existence of conventional or bi-directional NHSE and even a surprising absence
of NHSE. The topological properties and the (bi-orthogonal) bulk-boundary
correspondence, enumerated via computation of the (complex) Berry phase, the
winding number, and spatial localization of the edge modes, highlight the
topological phase transitions occurring therein. Further, to facilitate a
structured discussion of the non-Hermitian model, we split the results into PT
symmetric and non-PT symmetric cases with a view to comparing the two.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Enhancing quantum utility: simulating large-scale quantum spin chains on superconducting quantum computers</b>—2023-12-19 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.12427v2)] Talal Ahmed Chowdhury, Kwangmin Yu, Mahmud Ashraf Shamim, M. L. Kabir, Raza Sabbir Sufian


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present the quantum simulation of the frustrated quantum
spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin chain with competing
nearest-neighbor $(J_1)$ and next-nearest-neighbor $(J_2)$ exchange
interactions in the real superconducting quantum computer with qubits ranging
up to 100. In particular, we implement, for the first time, the Hamiltonian
with the next-nearest neighbor exchange interaction in conjunction with the
nearest neighbor interaction on IBM's superconducting quantum computer and
carry out the time evolution of the spin chain by employing first-order
Trotterization. Furthermore, our novel implementation of second-order
Trotterization for the isotropic Heisenberg spin chain, involving only
nearest-neighbor exchange interaction, enables precise measurement of the
expectation values of staggered magnetization observable across a range of up
to 100 qubits. Notably, in both cases, our approach results in a constant
circuit depth in each Trotter step, independent of the initial number of
qubits. Our demonstration of the accurate measurement of expectation values for
the large-scale quantum system using superconducting quantum computers
designates the quantum utility of these devices for investigating various
properties of many-body quantum systems. This will be a stepping stone to
achieving the quantum advantage over classical ones in simulating quantum
systems before the fault tolerance quantum era.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Single-Atom Amplification Assisted by Multiple Sideband Interference in 1D Waveguide QED Systems</b>—2023-07-20 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11174v2)] Kuan-Ting Lin, Ting Hsu, Fahad Aziz, Yu-Chen Lin, Ping-Yi Wen, Io-Chun Hoi, Guin-Dar Lin


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  This study conducts a theoretical investigation into the signal amplification
arising from multiple Rabi sideband coherence within a one-dimensional
waveguide quantum electrodynamics system. We utilize a semi-infinite waveguide
to drive an anharmonic multi-level transmon with a strong coherent microwave
field, examining the scattering behavior by introducing a probe signal. Our
findings reveal signal amplification under specific resonant conditions,
presenting spectra that reveal finer details than previously documented in the
literature. To elucidate the mechanisms behind this amplification, we develop a
model that explicitly accounts for multiple dressed sidebands in the presence
of a strong driving field. From this model, we derive the reflection amplitude
of the probe signal. Notably, our results indicate that amplification can occur
due to either population inversion or, in some instances, through the
constructive interference of multiple sidebands even in the absence of
population inversion. Additionally, we explore how qubit dephasing impacts the
amplification process.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Improved Quantum Algorithms for Eigenvalues Finding and Gradient Descent</b>—2023-12-22 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14786v2)] Nhat A. Nghiem, Tzu-Chieh Wei


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Block encoding is a key ingredient in the recently developed quantum signal
processing that forms a unifying framework for quantum algorithms. Initially
showcased for simplifying and optimizing resource utilization in several
problems, such as searching, amplitude estimation, and Hamiltonian simulation,
the capabilities of the quantum signal processing go beyond these and offer
untapped potential for devising new quantum algorithms. In this article, we
utilize block encoding to substantially enhance two previously proposed quantum
algorithms: largest eigenvalue estimation and quantum gradient descent. Unlike
previous works that involve sophisticated procedures, our findings, using the
unitary block encoding, demonstrate that even with elementary operations, these
new quantum algorithms can eliminate major scaling factors present in their
original counterparts. This yields much more efficient quantum algorithms
capable of tackling complex computational problems with remarkable efficiency.
Furthermore, we show how to extend our proposed method to different contexts,
including matrix inversion and multiple eigenvalues estimation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>QAOA with random and subgraph phase operators</b>—2024-02-28 (updated: 2024-03-18)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18412v2)] Anthony Wilkie, Igor Gaidai, James Ostrowski, Rebekah Herrman


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) is a promising quantum
algorithm that can be used to approximately solve combinatorial optimization
problems. The usual QAOA ansatz consists of an alternating application of the
cost and mixer Hamiltonians. In this work, we study how using Hamiltonians
other than the usual cost Hamiltonian, dubbed custom phase operators, can
affect the performance of QAOA. We derive an expected value formula for QAOA
with custom phase operators at p = 1 and show numerically that some of these
custom phase operators can achieve higher approximation ratio than the original
algorithm implementation. Out of all the graphs tested, 0.036\% of the random
custom phase operators, 75.9\% of the subgraph custom phase operators, 95.1\%
of the triangle-removed custom phase operators, and 93.9\% of the maximal
degree edge-removed custom phase operators have a higher approximation ratio
than the original QAOA implementation. This finding opens up the question of
whether better phase operators can be designed to further improve the
performance of QAOA.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Nanoscale Casimir force softening originated from surface electrons</b>—2024-03-18

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11849v1)] Hewan Zhang, Kun Ding


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Strong coupling between vacuum fields and quantum matter occurs at the
nanoscale and broadens the horizon of light-matter interaction. Nanoscale
Casimir force, as an exhibition of vacuum fields, inevitably experiences the
influence of surface electrons due to their quantum character, which are
ignorable in micron Casimir force. Here, we develop a three-dimensional
conformal map method to tackle typical experimental configurations with surface
electron contributions to Casimir force purposely and delicately included.
Based on this method, we reveal that surface electrons can either enhance or
suppress the nanoscale Casimir force, depending on materials and crystal
facets. The mechanism is demonstrated to be the Casimir force softening, which
results from surface electrons effectively altering the distance seen by the
Casimir interaction. Our findings not only highlight the interaction between
surface electrons and vacuum fields but also provide a recipe for theoretical
and experimental investigation of nanoscale fluctuation-type problems.
 </details>

