## arXiv:quant-ph—from Thursday, 2024-02-15 to Saturday, 2024-02-17

## Thursday | 2024-02-15

<details> <summary> <b>Space-Efficient and Noise-Robust Quantum Factoring</b>—2023-10-02 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00899v2)] Seyoon Ragavan, Vinod Vaikuntanathan


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We provide two improvements to Regev's recent quantum factoring algorithm
(arXiv:2308.06572), addressing its space efficiency and its noise-tolerance.
  Our first contribution is to improve the quantum space efficiency of Regev's
algorithm while keeping the circuit size the same. Our main result constructs a
quantum factoring circuit using $O(n \log n)$ qubits and $O(n^{3/2} \log n)$
gates. We achieve the best of Shor and Regev (upto a logarithmic factor in the
space complexity): on the one hand, Regev's circuit requires $O(n^{3/2})$
qubits and $O(n^{3/2} \log n)$ gates, while Shor's circuit requires $O(n^2 \log
n)$ gates but only $O(n)$ qubits. As with Regev, to factor an $n$-bit integer
$N$, we run our circuit independently $\approx \sqrt{n}$ times and applies
Regev's classical postprocessing procedure.
  Our optimization is achieved by implementing efficient and reversible
exponentiation with Fibonacci numbers in the exponent, rather than the usual
powers of 2, adapting work by Kaliski (arXiv:1711.02491) from the classical
reversible setting to the quantum setting. This technique also allows us to
perform quantum modular exponentiation that is efficient in both space and size
without requiring significant precomputation, a result that may be useful for
other quantum algorithms. A key ingredient of our exponentiation implementation
is an efficient circuit for a function resembling in-place quantum-quantum
modular multiplication.
  Our second contribution is to show that Regev's classical postprocessing
procedure can be modified to tolerate a constant fraction of the quantum
circuit runs being corrupted by errors. In contrast, Regev's analysis of his
classical postprocessing procedure requires all $\approx \sqrt{n}$ runs to be
successful. In a nutshell, we achieve this using lattice reduction techniques
to detect and filter out corrupt samples.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Truncation technique for variational quantum eigensolver for Molecular Hamiltonians</b>—2024-02-02 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01630v2)] Qidong Xu, Kanav Setia


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The variational quantum eigensolver (VQE) is one of the most promising
quantum algorithms for the near-term noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ)
devices. The VQE typically involves finding the minimum energy of a quantum
Hamiltonian through classical optimization of a parametrized quantum ansatz.
One of the bottlenecks in VQEs is the number of quantum circuits to be
measured. In this work, we propose a physically intuitive truncation technique
that starts the optimization procedure with a truncated Hamiltonian and then
gradually transitions to the optimization for the original Hamiltonian via an
operator classification method. This strategy allows us to reduce the required
number of evaluations for the expectation value of Hamiltonian on a quantum
computer. The reduction in required quantum resources for our strategy is
substantial and likely scales with the system size. With numerical simulations,
we demonstrate our method for various molecular systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Hypergraph product code with 0.2 constant coding rate and high code capacity noise threshold</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09648v1)] Zhengzhong Yi, Zhipeng Liang, Jiahan Chen, Zicheng Wang, Xuan Wang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The low coding rate of quantum stabilizer codes results in formidable
physical qubit overhead when realizing quantum error correcting in engineering.
In this letter, we propose a new class of hypergraph-product code called
TGRE-hypergraph-product code. This code has constant coding rate 0.2, which is
the highest constant coding rate of quantum stabilizer codes to our best
knowledge. We perform simulations to test the error correcting capability
TGRE-hypergraph-product code and find their code capacity noise threshold in
depolarizing noise channel is around 0.096.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Discrete quadratic model QUBO solution landscapes</b>—2023-04-30 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00568v3)] Tristan Zaborniak, Ulrike Stege


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Many computational problems involve optimization over discrete variables with
quadratic interactions. Known as discrete quadratic models (DQMs), these
problems in general are NP-hard. Accordingly, there is increasing interest in
encoding DQMs as quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) models to
allow their solution by quantum and quantum-inspired hardware with
architectures and solution methods designed specifically for such problem
types. However, converting DQMs to QUBO models often introduces invalid
solutions to the solution space of the QUBO models. These solutions must be
penalized by introducing appropriate constraints to the QUBO objective function
that are weighted by a tunable penalty parameter to ensure that the global
optimum is valid. However, selecting the strength of this parameter is
non-trivial, given its influence on solution landscape structure. Here, we
investigate the effects of choice of encoding and penalty strength on the
structure of QUBO DQM solution landscapes and their optimization, focusing
specifically on one-hot and domain-wall encodings.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Trade-off relations in open quantum dynamics via Robertson and Maccone-Pati uncertainty relations</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09680v1)] Tomohiro Nishiyama, Yoshihiko Hasegawa


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Heisenberg uncertainty relation, together with its generalization by
Robertson, serves as a fundamental concept in quantum mechanics, encapsulating
that non-commutative pairs of observable cannot be measured precisely. In this
Letter, we explore the Robertson uncertainty relation to demonstrate its
effectiveness in establishing a series of thermodynamic uncertainty relations
and quantum speed limits in open quantum dynamics. The derivation utilizes the
scaled continuous matrix product state representation that maps the time
evolution of quantum continuous measurement to the time evolution of the system
and field. Specifically, we consider the Maccone-Pati uncertainty relation, a
refinement of the Robertson uncertainty relation, to derive thermodynamic
uncertainty relations and quantum speed limits within open quantum dynamics
scenarios. These newly derived relations, which use a state orthogonal to the
initial state, yield tighter bounds than the previously known bounds. Our
findings not only reinforce the significance of the Robertson uncertainty
relation, but also expand its applicability to identify uncertainty relations
in open quantum dynamics.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Constraints of internal symmetry on the non-Hermitian skin effect and bidirectional skin effect under the action of the Hermitian conjugate of time-reversal symmetry</b>—2023-10-28 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18627v2)] Shu-Xuan Wang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Non-Hermitian skin effect is a basic phenomenon in non-Hermitian system,
which means that an extensive number of eigenstates can be localized at the
boundary. In this Letter, we systematically investigate the constraints from
all internal symmetries on the non-Hermitian skin effect in arbitrary
dimensions. By adopting the powerful Amoeba formulation, we build a generic
correspondence between the various internal symmetries and the behavior of the
non-Hermitian skin effect. Notably, we find that, for non-Hermitian systems
with the time-reversal$^\dagger$ symmetry, the eigenstates can simultaneously
localize at opposite boundaries, which is beyond the Amoeba formulation, and we
dub the phenomenon bidirectional skin effect. Our work provides an overall
perspective from the internal symmetry to the non-Hermitian skin effect.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Toward nuclear physics from lattice QCD on quantum computers</b>—2022-11-26 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.14550v2)] Arata Yamamoto, Takumi Doi


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  One of the ultimate missions of lattice QCD is to simulate atomic nuclei from
the first principle of the strong interaction. This is an extremely hard task
for the current computational technology, but might be reachable in coming
quantum computing era. In this paper, we discuss the computational complexities
of classical and quantum simulations of lattice QCD. It is shown that the
quantum simulation scales better as a function of a nucleon number and thus
will outperform for large nuclei.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Observation of topology transition in Floquet non-Hermitian skin effects in silicon photonics</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09700v1)] Zhiyuan Lin, Wange Song, Li-Wei Wang, Haoran Xin, Jiacheng Sun, Shengjie Wu, Chunyu Huang, Shining Zhu, Jian-Hua Jiang, Tao Li


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Non-Hermitian physics has greatly enriched our understanding of
nonequilibrium phenomena and uncovered novel effects such as the non-Hermitian
skin effect (NHSE) that has profoundly revolutionized the field. NHSE is
typically predicted in systems with nonreciprocal couplings which, however, are
difficult to realize in experiments. Without nonreciprocal couplings, the NHSE
can also emerge in systems with coexisting gauge fields and loss or gain (e.g.,
in Floquet non-Hermitian systems). However, such Floquet NHSE remains largely
unexplored in experiments. Here, we realize the Floquet NHSEs in periodically
modulated optical waveguides integrated on a silicon photonics platform. By
engineering the artificial gauge fields induced by the periodical modulation,
we observe various Floquet NHSEs and unveil their rich topological transitions.
Remarkably, we discover the transitions between the normal unipolar NHSEs and
an unconventional bipolar NHSE which is accompanied by the directional reversal
of the NHSEs. The underlying physics is revealed by the band winding in complex
quasienergy space which undergoes a topology change from isolated loops with
the same winding to linked loops with opposite windings. Our work unfolds a new
route toward Floquet NHSEs originating from the interplay between gauge fields
and dissipation effects and offers fundamentally new ways for steering light
and other waves.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Linear Depth QFT over IBM Heavy-hex Architecture</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09705v1)] Xiangyu Gao, Yuwei Jin, Minghao Guo, Henry Chen, Eddy Z. Zhang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Compiling a given quantum algorithm into a target hardware architecture is a
challenging optimization problem. The compiler must take into consideration the
coupling graph of physical qubits and the gate operation dependencies. The
existing noise in hardware architectures requires the compilation to use as few
running cycles as possible. Existing approaches include using SAT solver or
heuristics to complete the mapping but these may cause the issue of either long
compilation time (e.g., timeout after hours) or suboptimal compilation results
in terms of running cycles (e.g., exponentially increasing number of total
cycles).
  In this paper, we propose an efficient mapping approach for Quantum Fourier
Transformation (QFT) circuits over the existing IBM heavy-hex architecture.
Such proposal first of all turns the architecture into a structure consisting
of a straight line with dangling qubits, and then do the mapping over this
generated structure recursively. The calculation shows that there is a linear
depth upper bound for the time complexity of these structures and for a special
case where there is 1 dangling qubit in every 5 qubits, the time complexity is
5N+O(1). All these results are better than state of the art methods.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Effects of correlated magnetic noises from shared control lines on two-qubit gate</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09719v1)] Yinan Fang


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Recent proposals for building scalable quantum computational devices in
semi-conductor based spin qubits introduce shared control lines in order to
reduce the overhead of qubits controls. In principle, noises from the shared
controls could introduce correlated errors to multi-qubit gates, and
identifying them will be helpful for achieving higher gate fidelity in those
setups. Here, we introduce a method based on the randomized benchmarking
protocols that is capable of distinguishing among different correlated noises
in a particular two-qubit model motivated by the crossbar architecture.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Comment on "Experimentally adjudicating between different causal accounts of Bell-inequality violations via statistical model selection"</b>—2022-06-21 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.10619v4)] Jonte R. Hance, Sabine Hossenfelder


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In a recent paper (Phys. Rev. A 105, 042220 (2022)), Daley et al claim that
some superdeterministic models are disfavoured against standard quantum
mechanics, because such models overfit the statistics of a Bell-type experiment
which the authors conducted. We add to the discussion by providing additional
context about how few superdeterministic models fall into the category they
analyse, and by emphasising that overfitting, while better as a measure of
finetuning than other measures given in the literature, does not necessarily
indicate a model is universally bad.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Upper Bounds for the Clock Speeds of Fault-Tolerant Distributed Quantum Computation using Satellites to Supply Entangled Photon Pairs</b>—2022-08-31 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.00151v2)] Hudson Leone, S Srikara, Peter P. Rohde, Simon Devitt


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Despite recent advances in quantum repeater networks, entanglement
distribution on a continental scale remains prohibitively difficult and
resource intensive. Using satellites to distribute maximally entangled photons
(Bell pairs) between distant stations is an intriguing alternative. Quantum
satellite networks are known to be viable for quantum key distribution, but the
question of if such a network is feasible for fault tolerant distributed
quantum computation (FTDQC) has so far been unaddressed. In this paper we
determine a closed form expression for the rate at which logical Bell pairs can
be produced between distant fault-tolerant qubits using a satellite network to
supply imperfect physical Bell pairs. With generous parameter assumptions, our
results show that FTDQC with satellite networks over statewide distances
(500-999 km) is possible for a collective clock rate on the order of 1 MHz
while continental (1000-4999 km) and transcontinental (5000+ km) distances run
on the order of 10 kHz and 100 Hz respectively.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Universal adjointation of isometry operations using transformation of quantum supermaps</b>—2024-01-18 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10137v2)] Satoshi Yoshida, Akihito Soeda, Mio Murao


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Identification of possible transformations of quantum objects including
quantum states and quantum operations is indispensable in developing quantum
algorithms. Universal transformations, defined as input-independent
transformations, appear in various quantum applications. Such is the case for
universal transformations of unitary operations. However, extending these
transformations to non-unitary operations is nontrivial and largely unresolved.
Addressing this, we introduce isometry adjointation protocols that convert an
input isometry operation into its adjoint operation, which include both unitary
operation and quantum state transformations. The paper details the construction
of parallel and sequential isometry adjointation protocols, derived from
unitary inversion protocols using quantum combs, and achieving optimal
approximation error. This error is shown to be independent of the output
dimension of the isometry operation. In particular, we explicitly obtain an
asymptotically optimal parallel protocol achieving an approximation error
$\epsilon = \Theta(d^2/n)$, where $d$ is the input dimension of the isometry
operation and $n$ is the number of calls of the isometry operation. The
research also extends to isometry inversion and universal error detection,
employing semidefinite programming to assess optimal performances. The findings
suggest that the optimal performance of general protocols in isometry
adjointation and universal error detection is not dependent on the output
dimension, and that indefinite causal order protocols offer advantages over
sequential ones in isometry inversion and universal error detection.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Noise Decoupling for State Transfer in Continuous Variable Systems</b>—2023-07-05 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.02059v4)] Fattah Sakuldee, Behnam Tonekaboni


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We consider a toy model of noise channels, given by a random mixture of
unitary operations, for state transfer problems with continuous variables.
Assuming that the path between the transmitter node and the receiver node can
be intervened, we propose a noise decoupling protocol to manipulate the noise
channels generated by linear and quadratic polynomials of creation and
annihilation operators, to achieve an identity channel, hence the term noise
decoupling. For random constant noise, the target state can be recovered while
for the general noise profile, the decoupling can be done when the
interventions are fast compared to the noise. We show that the state at the
transmitter can be written as a convolution of the target state and a filter
function characterizing the noise and the manipulation scheme. We also briefly
discuss that a similar analysis can be extended to the case of higher-order
polynomial generators. Finally, we demonstrate the protocols by numerical
calculations.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>The $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum Rabi model: Solutions and exceptional points</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09749v1)] Jiong Li, Yi-Cheng Wang, Li-Wei Duan, Qing-Hu Chen


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The non-Hermitian one-photon and two-photon quantum Rabi models (QRMs) within
imaginary couplings are respectively solved through the Bogoliubov operators
approach. Transcendental functions responsible for exact solutions are derived,
whose zeros produce the complete spectra. Exceptional points (EPs) can be
identified with simultaneously vanishing transcendental function and its
derivative with respect to energy. The EP is formed in the two
nearest-neighboring excited energy levels, and shifts to the lower coupling
strength at higher energy levels. The well-known generalized rotating-wave
approximation method in the one-photon QRM is also extended to its
non-Hermitian counterpart, and the obtained analytical EPs agree quite well
with the exact ones, and the simulated dynamics can describes the basic
features of this model. Very interestingly, under the resonant condition in the
non-Hermitian two-photon QRM, the lowest two excited states which belong to the
same parity and in the same photonic subspace within odd photon numbers can
cross, and boh always have real energy levels. Such an EP at this crossing
point is totally new, because the energies of the two levels are purely real,
in sharp contrast to the conventional EP in the non-Hermitian systems. For both
non-Hermitian QRMs, the fidelity susceptibility goes to negative infinity at
the EPs, consistent with the recent observations in the non-Hermitian systems.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>An Expressive Ansatz for Low-Depth Quantum Approximate Optimisation</b>—2023-02-09 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04479v2)] V. Vijendran, Aritra Das, Dax Enshan Koh, Syed M. Assad, Ping Koy Lam


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The quantum approximate optimisation algorithm (QAOA) is a hybrid
quantum-classical algorithm used to approximately solve combinatorial
optimisation problems. It involves multiple iterations of a parameterised
ansatz comprising a problem and mixer Hamiltonian, with the parameters being
classically optimised. While QAOA can be implemented on NISQ devices, physical
limitations can limit circuit depth and decrease performance. To address these
limitations, this work introduces the eXpressive QAOA (XQAOA), an
overparameterised variant of QAOA that assigns more classical parameters to the
ansatz to improve its performance at low depths. XQAOA also introduces an
additional Pauli-Y component in the mixer Hamiltonian, allowing the mixer to
implement arbitrary unitary transformations on each qubit. To benchmark the
performance of XQAOA at unit depth, we derive its closed-form expression for
the MaxCut problem and compare it to QAOA, Multi-Angle QAOA (MA-QAOA), a
classical-relaxed algorithm, and the state-of-the-art Goemans-Williamson
algorithm on a set of unweighted regular graphs with 128 and 256 nodes for
degrees ranging from 3 to 10. Our results indicate that at unit depth, XQAOA
has benign loss landscapes, allowing it to consistently outperform QAOA,
MA-QAOA, and the classical-relaxed algorithm on all graph instances and the
Goemans-Williamson algorithm on graph instances with degrees greater than 4.
Small-scale simulations also reveal that unit-depth XQAOA surpasses both QAOA
and MA-QAOA on all tested depths up to five. Additionally, we find an infinite
family of graphs for which XQAOA solves MaxCut exactly and analytically show
that for some graphs in this family, XQAOA achieves a much larger approximation
ratio than QAOA. Overall, XQAOA is a more viable choice for variational quantum
optimisation on NISQ devices, offering competitive performance at low depths.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Vector spectrometer with Hertz-level resolution and super-recognition capability</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09752v1)] Ting Qing, Shupeng Li, Huashan Yang, Lihan Wang, Yijie Fang, Xiaohu Tang, Meihui Cao, Jianming Lu, Jijun He, Junqiu Liu, Yueguang Lv, Shilong Pan


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  High-resolution optical spectrometers are crucial in revealing intricate
characteristics of signals, determining laser frequencies, measuring physical
constants, identifying substances, and advancing biosensing applications.
Conventional spectrometers, however, often grapple with inherent trade-offs
among spectral resolution, wavelength range, and accuracy. Furthermore, even at
high resolution, resolving overlapping spectral lines during spectroscopic
analyses remains a huge challenge. Here, we propose a vector spectrometer with
ultrahigh resolution, combining broadband optical frequency hopping, ultrafine
microwave-photonic scanning, and vector detection. A programmable
frequency-hopping laser was developed, facilitating a sub-Hz linewidth and
Hz-level frequency stability, an improvement of four and six orders of
magnitude, respectively, compared to those of state-of-the-art tunable lasers.
We also designed an asymmetric optical transmitter and receiver to eliminate
measurement errors arising from modulation nonlinearity and multi-channel
crosstalk. The resultant vector spectrometer exhibits an unprecedented
frequency resolution of 2 Hz, surpassing the state-of-the-art by four orders of
magnitude, over a 33-nm range. Through high-resolution vector analysis, we
observed that group delay information enhances the separation capability of
overlapping spectral lines by over 47%, significantly streamlining the
real-time identification of diverse substances. Our technique fills the gap in
optical spectrometers with resolutions below 10 kHz and enables vector
measurement to embrace revolution in functionality.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Superconducting flux qubit with ferromagnetic Josephson pi junction operating at zero magnetic field</b>—2024-01-26 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14597v2)] Sunmi Kim, Leonid V. Abdurakhimov, Duong Pham, Wei Qiu, Hirotaka Terai, Sahel Ashhab, Shiro Saito, Taro Yamashita, Kouichi Semba


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The operation of a conventional superconducting flux qubit requires the
application of a precisely tuned magnetic field to set the operation point at
half a flux quantum through the qubit loop, which makes the scaling of quantum
circuits based on this type of qubits difficult. It has been proposed that, by
inducing a pi phase shift in the superconducting order parameter using a
precisely controlled nanoscale-thickness
superconductor/ferromagnet/superconductor Josephson junction, commonly referred
to as pi-junction, it is possible to realize a flux qubit operating at zero
magnetic flux. We report the realization of a zero-flux-biased flux qubit based
on three NbN/AlN/NbN Josephson junctions and a NbN/PdNi/NbN ferromagnetic
pi-junction. The qubit lifetime is in the microsecond range, which we argue is
limited by quasiparticle excitations in the metallic ferromagnet layer. With
further improvements in the materials of the ferromagnetic junction, the
zero-flux-biased flux qubits can become a promising platform for quantum
computing.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Universal algorithm for transforming Hamiltonian eigenvalues</b>—2023-12-14 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08848v3)] Tatsuki Odake, Hlér Kristjánsson, Philip Taranto, Mio Murao


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Manipulating Hamiltonians governing physical systems has found a broad range
of applications, from quantum chemistry to semiconductor design. In this work,
we provide a new way of manipulating Hamiltonians, by transforming their
eigenvalues while keeping their eigenstates unchanged. We develop a universal
algorithm that deterministically implements any desired (suitably
differentiable) function on the eigenvalues of any unknown Hamiltonian, whose
positive-time and negative-time dynamics are given as a black box. Our
algorithm uses correlated randomness to efficiently combine two subroutines --
namely controlization and Fourier series simulation -- exemplifying a general
compilation procedure that we develop. The runtime of our algorithm is
significantly reduced using compilation compared to a na\"ive concatenation of
the subroutines and outperforms similar methods based on the quantum singular
value transformation. Finally, to circumvent the need for the negative-time
dynamics, we present a universal algorithm to transform positive-time to
negative-time dynamics without adding an auxiliary qubit, which could also be
of standalone interest.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>(Nonequilibrium) dynamics of diffusion processes with non-conservative drifts</b>—2023-02-20 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.10154v5)] P. Garbaczewski, M. Żaba


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The nonequilibrium Fokker-Planck dynamics with a non-conservative drift
field, in dimension $N\geq 2$, can be related with the non-Hermitian quantum
mechanics in a real scalar potential $V$ and in a purely imaginary vector
potential -$iA$ of real amplitude $A$. Since Fokker-Planck probability density
functions may be obtained by means of Feynman's path integrals, the previous
observation points towards a general issue of "magnetically affine"
propagators, possibly of quantum origin, in real and Euclidean time. In below
we shall follow the $N=3$ "magnetic thread", within which one may keep under a
computational control formally and conceptually different implementations of
magnetism (or surrogate magnetism) in the dynamics of diffusion processes. We
shall focus on interrelations (with due precaution to varied, not evidently
compatible, notational conventions) of: (i) the pertinent non-conservatively
drifted diffusions, (ii) the classic Brownian motion of charged particles in
the (electro)magnetic field, (iii) diffusion processes arising within so-called
Euclidean quantum mechanics (which from the outset employs non-Hermitian
"magnetic" Hamiltonians), (iv) limitations of the usefulness of the Euclidean
map $\exp(-itH_{quant}) \rightarrow \exp(-tH_{Eucl})$, regarding the
probabilistic significance of inferred (path) integral kernels in the
description of diffusion processes.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Electron-Photon Exchange-Correlation Approximation for QEDFT</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09794v1)] I-Te Lu, Michael Ruggenthaler, Nicolas Tancogne-Dejean, Simone Latini, Markus Penz, Angel Rubio


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum-electrodynamical density-functional theory (QEDFT) provides a
promising avenue for exploring complex light-matter interactions in optical
cavities for real materials. Similar to conventional density-functional theory,
the Kohn-Sham formulation of QEDFT needs approximations for the generally
unknown exchange-correlation functional. In addition to the usual
electron-electron exchange-correlation potential, an approximation for the
electron-photon exchange-correlation potential is needed. A recent
electron-photon exchange functional [C. Sch\"afer et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA, 118, e2110464118 (2021),
https://www.pnas.org/doi/abs/10.1073/pnas.2110464118], derived from the
equation of motion of the non-relativistic Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian, shows
robust performance in one-dimensional systems across weak- and strong-coupling
regimes. Yet, its performance in reproducing electron densities in higher
dimensions remains unexplored. Here we consider this QEDFT functional
approximation from one to three-dimensional finite systems and across weak to
strong light-matter couplings. The electron-photon exchange approximation
provides excellent results in the ultra-strong-coupling regime. However, to
ensure accuracy also in the weak-coupling regime across higher dimensions, we
introduce a computationally efficient renormalization factor for the
electron-photon exchange functional, which accounts for part of the
electron-photon correlation contribution. These findings extend the
applicability of photon-exchange-based functionals to realistic cavity-matter
systems, fostering the field of cavity QED (quantum electrodynamics) materials
engineering.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Expressivity of parameterized quantum circuits for generative modeling of continuous multivariate distributions</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09848v1)] Alice Barthe, Michele Grossi, Sofia Vallecorsa, Jordi Tura, Vedran Dunjko


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Parameterized quantum circuits have been extensively used as the basis for
machine learning models in regression, classification, and generative tasks.
For supervised learning their expressivity has been thoroughly investigated and
several universality properties have been proven. However, in the case of
quantum generative modeling, the situation is less clear, especially when the
task is to model distributions over continuous variables. In this work, we
focus on expectation value sampling-based models; models where random variables
are sampled classically, encoded with a parametrized quantum circuit, and the
expectation value of fixed observables is measured and returned as a sample. We
prove the universality of such variational quantum algorithms for the
generation of multivariate distributions. Additionally, we provide a detailed
analysis of these models, including fundamental upper bounds on the
dimensionality of the distributions these models can represent. We further
present a tight trade-off result connecting the needed number of measurements
and qubit numbers in order to have universality for a desired dimension of
output distribution within an error tolerance. Finally we also show that the
data encoding strategy relates to the so-called polynomial chaos expansion,
which is an analog of the Fourier expansion. Our results may help guide the
design of future quantum circuits in generative modeling tasks.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Higher categorical symmetries and gauging in two-dimensional spin systems</b>—2023-01-03 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.01259v2)] Clement Delcamp, Apoorv Tiwari


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present a framework to systematically investigate higher categorical
symmetries in two-dimensional spin systems. Though exotic, such generalised
symmetries have been shown to naturally arise as dual symmetries upon gauging
invertible symmetries. Our framework relies on an approach to dualities whereby
dual quantum lattice models only differ in a choice of module 2-category over
some input fusion 2-category. Given an arbitrary two-dimensional spin system
with an ordinary symmetry, we explain how to perform the (twisted) gauging of
any of its sub-symmetries. We then demonstrate that the resulting model has a
symmetry structure encoded into the Morita dual of the input fusion 2-category
with respect to the corresponding module 2-category. We exemplify this approach
by specialising to certain finite group generalisations of the transverse-field
Ising model, for which we explicitly define lattice symmetry operators
organised into fusion 2-categories of higher representations of higher groups.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Null dimension witness based on single measurements</b>—2023-05-15 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08395v2)] Josep Batle, Adam Bednorz


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present a null witness of the dimension of a quantum system,
discriminating real, complex and classical spaces, based on equality due to
linear independence. The witness involves only a single measurement with
sufficiently many outcomes and prepared input states. In addition, for
intermediate dimensions, the witness bounds saturate for a family of
equiangular tight frames including symmetric informationally complete positive
operator valued measures. Such a witness requires a minimum of resources, being
robust against many practical imperfections. We also discuss errors due to
finite statistics.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Association between quantum paradoxes based on weak values and a realistic interpretation of quantum measurements</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09879v1)] Alice M. Aredes, Pablo L. Saldanha


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Many quantum paradoxes based on a realistic view of weak values were
discussed in the last decades. They lead to astonishing conclusions such as the
measurement of a spin component of a spin-1/2 particle resulting in $100\hbar$,
the separation of a photon from its polarization, and the possibility of having
3 particles in 2 boxes without any 2 particles being in the same box, among
others. Here we show that the realistic view of the weak values present in
these (and other) works is equivalent to a realistic (and highly controversial)
view of quantum measurements, where a measurement reveals the underlying
reality of the measured quantity. We discuss that all quantum paradoxes based
on weak values simply disappear if we deny these realistic views of quantum
measurements and weak values. Our work thus aims to demonstrate the strong
assumptions and the corresponding problems present in the interpretation of
these quantum paradoxes.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Towards Federated Learning on the Quantum Internet</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09902v1)] Leo Sünkel, Michael Kölle, Tobias Rohe, Thomas Gabor


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  While the majority of focus in quantum computing has so far been on
monolithic quantum systems, quantum communication networks and the quantum
internet in particular are increasingly receiving attention from researchers
and industry alike. The quantum internet may allow a plethora of applications
such as distributed or blind quantum computing, though research still is at an
early stage, both for its physical implementation as well as algorithms; thus
suitable applications are an open research question. We evaluate a potential
application for the quantum internet, namely quantum federated learning. We run
experiments under different settings in various scenarios (e.g. network
constraints) using several datasets from different domains and show that (1)
quantum federated learning is a valid alternative for regular training and (2)
network topology and nature of training are crucial considerations as they may
drastically influence the models performance. The results indicate that more
comprehensive research is required to optimally deploy quantum federated
learning on a potential quantum internet.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>High-fidelity two-qubit gates of hybrid superconducting-semiconducting singlet-triplet qubits</b>—2023-04-11 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05086v2)] Maria Spethmann, Stefano Bosco, Andrea Hofmann, Jelena Klinovaja, Daniel Loss


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Hybrid systems comprising superconducting and semiconducting materials are
promising architectures for quantum computing. Superconductors induce
long-range interactions between the spin degrees of freedom of semiconducting
quantum dots. These interactions are widely anisotropic when the semiconductor
material has strong spin-orbit interactions. We show that this anisotropy is
tunable and enables fast and high-fidelity two-qubit gates between
singlet-triplet (ST) spin qubits. Our design is immune to leakage of the
quantum information into noncomputational states and removes always-on
interactions between the qubits, thus resolving key open challenges for these
architectures. Our ST qubits do not require additional technologically
demanding components nor fine-tuning of parameters. They operate at low
magnetic fields of a few millitesla and are fully compatible with
superconductors. By suppressing systematic errors in realistic devices, we
estimate infidelities below $10^{-3}$, which could pave the way toward
large-scale hybrid superconducting-semiconducting quantum processors.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Fingerprinting Defects in Hexagonal Boron Nitride via Multi-Phonon Excitation</b>—2023-08-17 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09018v2)] Pablo Tieben, Andreas W. Schell


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Single photon emitters in hexagonal boron nitride have gathered a lot of
attention due to their favourable emission properties and the manifold of
possible applications. Despite extensive scientific effort, the exact atomic
origin of these emitters has remained unkown thus far. Recently, several
studies have tied the emission in the yellow spectral region to carbon-related
defects, but the exact atomic structure of the defects remains elusive. In this
study, photoluminescence emission and excitation spectroscopy is performed on a
large number of emitters within this region. By comparison of the experimental
data with theoretical predictions, the origin of yellow single photon emission
in hexagonal boron nitride is determined. Knowledge of this atomic structure
and its optical properties is crucial for the reliable implementation of these
emitters in quantum technologies.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Interpreting symplectic linear transformations in a two-qubit phase space</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09922v1)] William K. Wootters


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  For the continuous Wigner function and for the simplest discrete Wigner
function in odd-prime-power dimensions, permuting the values of the Wigner
function in accordance with a symplectic linear transformation is equivalent to
performing a certain unitary transformation on the state. That is, performing
this unitary transformation is simply a matter of moving Wigner-function values
around in phase space. This simple correspondence does not hold for dimensions
that are powers of two. Here we show, though, that a generalized version of
this correspondence does hold for the case of a two-qubit phase space. The
phase space we consider is the two-dimensional vector space over the
four-element field. In this case, a symplectic linear permutation of the points
of phase space, together with a certain reinterpretation of the Wigner
function, is equivalent to a unitary transformation.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Accuracy Tests of the Envelope Theory</b>—2023-02-20 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.09892v2)] Lorenzo Cimino, Cyrille Chevalier, Ethan Carlier, Joachim Viseur


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The envelope theory is an easy-to-use approximation method to obtain
eigensolutions for some quantum many-body systems, in particular in the domain
of hadronic physics. Even if the solutions are reliable and an improvement
procedure exists, the method can lack accuracy for some systems. In a previous
work, two hypotheses were proposed to explain the low precision: the presence
of a divergence in the potential or the lack of a variational character for
peculiar interactions. In the present work, different systems are studied to
test these hypotheses. These tests show that the presence of a divergence does
indeed cause less accurate results, while the lack of a variational character
reduces the impact of the improvement procedure.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum algorithm for bioinformatics to compute the similarity between proteins</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09927v1)] Anthony Chagneau, Yousra Massaoudi, Imene Derbali, Linda Yahiaoui


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Drug discovery has become a main challenge in our society, following the
Covid-19 pandemic. Even pharmaceutical companies are already using computing to
accelerate drug discovery. They are increasingly interested in Quantum
Computing with a view to improve the speed of research and development process
for new drugs. Here, the authors propose a quantum method to generate random
sequences based on the occurrence in a protein database and another quantum
process to compute a similarity rate between proteins. The aim is to find
proteins that are closest to the generated protein and to have an ordering of
these proteins. First, the authors will present the construction of a quantum
generator of proteins who define a protein, called the test protein. The aim is
to have a randomly defined amino-acids sequence according to a proteins
database given. The authors will then describe two different methods to compute
the similarity's rate between the test protein and each protein of the database
and present results obtained for the test protein and for a case study, the
elafin.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Adversarial Quantum Machine Learning: An Information-Theoretic Generalization Analysis</b>—2024-01-31 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00176v2)] Petros Georgiou, Sharu Theresa Jose, Osvaldo Simeone


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In a manner analogous to their classical counterparts, quantum classifiers
are vulnerable to adversarial attacks that perturb their inputs. A promising
countermeasure is to train the quantum classifier by adopting an attack-aware,
or adversarial, loss function. This paper studies the generalization properties
of quantum classifiers that are adversarially trained against bounded-norm
white-box attacks. Specifically, a quantum adversary maximizes the classifier's
loss by transforming an input state $\rho(x)$ into a state $\lambda$ that is
$\epsilon$-close to the original state $\rho(x)$ in $p$-Schatten distance.
Under suitable assumptions on the quantum embedding $\rho(x)$, we derive novel
information-theoretic upper bounds on the generalization error of adversarially
trained quantum classifiers for $p = 1$ and $p = \infty$. The derived upper
bounds consist of two terms: the first is an exponential function of the
2-R\'enyi mutual information between classical data and quantum embedding,
while the second term scales linearly with the adversarial perturbation size
$\epsilon$. Both terms are shown to decrease as $1/\sqrt{T}$ over the training
set size $T$ . An extension is also considered in which the adversary assumed
during training has different parameters $p$ and $\epsilon$ as compared to the
adversary affecting the test inputs. Finally, we validate our theoretical
findings with numerical experiments for a synthetic setting.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Electrically controlled focusing of de Broglie matter waves by Fresnel zone plate</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09935v1)] Sushanta Barman, Sudeep Bhattacharjee


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The evolution from classical to quantum matter wave optics has been
influenced by transformative optical devices. Fresnel zone plates (FZP),
initially designed for light manipulation, have now found expanded applications
in matter waves. In this study, focusing of helium atoms by an electrically
biased FZP is investigated numerically. The $n$th opaque zone of the FZP is
subject to electrostatic biasing using three ways: (i) $V_n=V_1$, where $V_1$
is the biasing voltage applied to the central zone, (ii) $V_n=V_1 \sqrt{n}$,
and (iii) $V_n = V_1 \sin (k_E n)$, with $k_E$ being the radial modulation
factor. The effect of biasing the FZP on the transmission coefficient ($T_c$),
focal length ($f$), size of the focused wave packet ($\sigma_F$), transverse
intensity profile, and focusing efficiency ($\eta$) is investigated. The study
reveals that the electrical biasing of the FZP modulates the diffractive
focusing of neutral atoms by altering the atom-surface interaction with induced
polarization potential. It is observed that biasing with $V_n=V_1$ induces
multi-focusing of the FZP, reducing wave packet transmission and focusing
efficiency. Biasing with $V_n=V_1 \sqrt{n}$ significantly enhances the
transmission coefficient by $23.7\%$, increases the focal length $f$ by
$103\%$, and improves the focusing efficiency from $10\%$ to $20.17\%$,
indicating enhanced focusing performance. Biasing with $V_n=V_1 \sin(k_E n)$
offers increased controllability in focusing matter waves through the
parameters $k_E$ and $V_1$. In this case, a highly intense focused wave packet
with a better efficiency of $20.3\%$ is observed compared to the other cases.
The findings will be helpful in various emerging applications of atom optics,
such as improving the performance of helium microscopes, enabling control in
cold atom trapping on atom chips, and high-precision atom lithography for
quantum electronic devices.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Two-particle Hadamard walk on dynamically percolated line and circle</b>—2023-11-27 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.15579v2)] M. Paryzkova, M. Stefanak, J. Novotny, B. Kollar, T. Kiss


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Asymptotic dynamics of a Hadamard walk of two non-interacting quantum
particles on a dynamically percolated finite line or a circle is investigated.
We construct a basis of the attractor space of the corresponding random-unitary
dynamics and prove the completeness of our solution. In comparison to the
one-particle case, the structure of the attractor space is much more complex,
resulting in intriguing asymptotic dynamics. General results are illustrated on
two examples. First, for circles of length not divisible by 4 the boundary
conditions reduces the number of attractors considerably, allowing for fully
analytic solution. Second, we investigate line of length 4 and determine the
asymptotic cycle of reduced coin states and position distributions, focusing on
the correlations between the two particles. Our results show that a random
unitary evolution, which is a combination of quantum dynamics and a classical
stochasticity, leads to correlations between initially uncorrelated particles.
This is not possible for purely unitary evolution of non-interacting quantum
particles. The shared dynamically percolated graph can thus be considered as a
weak form of interaction.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Realization of high-fidelity unitary operations on up to 64 frequency bins</b>—2022-06-13 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.06059v2)] Syamsundar De, Vahid Ansari, Jan Sperling, Sonja Barkhofen, Benjamin Brecht, Christine Silberhorn


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The ability to apply user-chosen large-scale unitary operations with high
fidelity to a quantum state is key to realizing future photonic quantum
technologies. Here, we realize the implementation of programmable unitary
operations on up to 64 frequency-bin modes. To benchmark the performance of our
system, we probe different quantum walk unitary operations, in particular
Grover walks on four-dimensional hypercubes with similarities exceeding 95\%
and quantum walks with 400 steps on circles and finite lines with similarities
of 98\%. Our results open a new path towards implementing high-quality unitary
operations, which can form the basis for applications in complex tasks, such as
Gaussian boson sampling.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>A Quantum Approach to News Verification from the Perspective of a News Aggregator</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09956v1)] Theodore Andronikos, Alla Sirokofskich


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In the dynamic landscape of digital information, the rise of misinformation
and fake news presents a pressing challenge. This paper takes a completely new
approach to verifying news, inspired by how quantum actors can reach agreement
even when they are spatially spread out. We propose a radically new, to the
best of our knowledge, algorithm that uses quantum ``entanglement'' (think of
it as a special connection) to help news aggregators sniff out bad actors,
whether they be other news sources or even fact-checkers trying to spread
misinformation. This algorithm doesn't rely on quantum signatures, it just uses
basic quantum technology we already have, in particular, special pairs of
particles called ``EPR pairs'' that are much easier to create than other
options. More complex entangled states are like juggling too many balls -
they're hard to make and slow things down, especially when many players are
involved. For instance, bigger, more complex states like ``GHZ states'' work
for small groups, but they become messy with larger numbers. So, we stick with
Bell states, the simplest form of entanglement, which are easy to generate no
matter how many players are in the game. This means our algorithm is faster to
set up, works for any number of participants, and is more practical for
real-world use. Bonus points: it finishes in a fixed number of steps,
regardless of how many players are involved, making it even more scalable. This
new approach may lead to a powerful and efficient way to fight misinformation
in the digital age, using the weird and wonderful world of quantum mechanics.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Entanglement and entropy in multipartite systems: a useful approach</b>—2023-07-11 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05205v2)] A. Bernal, J. A. Casas, J. M. Moreno


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum entanglement and quantum entropy are crucial concepts in the study of
multipartite quantum systems. In this work we show how the notion of
concurrence vector, re-expressed in a particularly useful form, provides new
insights and computational tools for the analysis of both. In particular, using
this approach for a general multipartite pure state, one can easily prove known
relations in an easy way and to build up new relations between the concurrences
associated with the different bipartitions. The approach is also useful to
derive sufficient conditions for genuine entanglement in generic multipartite
systems that are computable in polynomial time. From an entropy-of-entanglement
perspective, the approach is powerful to prove properties of the Tsallis-$2$
entropy, such as the subadditivity, and to derive new ones, e.g. a modified
version of the strong subadditivity which is always fulfilled; thanks to the
purification theorem these results hold for any multipartite state, whether
pure or mixed.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Enhanced Schmidt number criteria based on correlation trace norms</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09972v1)] Armin Tavakoli, Simon Morelli


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Schmidt number represents the genuine entanglement dimension of a
bipartite quantum state. We derive simple criteria for the Schmidt number of a
density matrix in arbitrary local dimensions. They are based on the trace norm
of correlations obtained from seminal families of quantum measurements,
specifically symmetric informationally complete measurements and mutually
unbiased bases. Our criteria are strictly stronger than both the well-known
fidelity witness criterion and the computable cross-norms or realignment
criterion.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum dimension witness with a single repeated operation</b>—2023-08-22 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11246v2)] Tomasz Białecki, Tomasz Rybotycki, Josep Batle, Adam Bednorz


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present a simple null test of a dimension of a quantum system, using a
single repeated operation in the method of delays, assuming that each instance
is identical and independent. The test is well-suited to current feasible
quantum technologies, with programed gates. We also analyze weaker versions of
the test, assuming unitary or almost unitary operations and derive expressions
for the statistical error. The feasibility of the test is demonstrated on IBM
Quantum. The failure in one of the tested devices can indicate a lack of
identity between subsequent gates or an extra dimension in the many
worlds/copies model.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Motional state analysis of a trapped ion by ultra-narrowband composite pulses</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10041v1)] Marion Mallweger, Milena Guevara-Bertsch, Boyan T. Torosov, Robin Thomm, Natalia Kuk, Harry Parke, Christian F. Roos, Gerard Higgins, Markus Hennrich, Nikolay V. Vitanov


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  In this work, we present a method for measuring the motional state of a
two-level system coupled to a harmonic oscillator. Our technique uses
ultra-narrowband composite pulses on the blue sideband transition to scan
through the populations of the different motional states. Our approach does not
assume any previous knowledge of the motional state distribution and is easily
implemented. It is applicable both inside and outside of the Lamb-Dicke regime.
For higher phonon numbers especially, the composite pulse sequence can be used
as a filter for measuring phonon number ranges. We demonstrate this measurement
technique using a single trapped ion and show good detection results with the
numerically evaluated pulse sequence.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Interspecies Förster resonances of Rb-Cs Rydberg $d$-states for enhanced multi-qubit gate fidelities</b>—2024-01-04 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02308v2)] Paul M. Ireland, D. M. Walker, J. D. Pritchard


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We present an analysis of interspecies interactions between Rydberg
$d$-states of rubidium and cesium. We identify the F\"orster resonance channels
offering the strongest interspecies couplings, demonstrating the viability for
performing high-fidelity two- and multi-qubit $C_kZ$ gates up to $k=4$,
including accounting for blockade errors evaluated via numerical
diagonalization of the pair-potentials. Our results show $d$-state orbitals
offer enhanced suppression of intraspecies couplings compared to $s$-states,
making them well suited for use in large-scale neutral atom quantum processors.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum Backtracking in Qrisp Applied to Sudoku Problems</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10060v1)] Raphael Seidel, René Zander, Matic Petrič, Niklas Steinmann, David Q. Liu, Nikolay Tcholtchev, Manfred Hauswirth


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The quantum backtracking algorithm proposed by Ashley Montanaro raised
considerable interest, as it provides a quantum speed-up for a large class of
classical optimization algorithms. It does not suffer from Barren-Plateaus and
transfers well into the fault-tolerant era, as it requires only a limited
number of arbitrary angle gates. Despite its potential, the algorithm has seen
limited implementation efforts, presumably due to its abstract formulation. In
this work, we provide a detailed instruction on implementing the quantum step
operator for arbitrary backtracking instances. For a single controlled diffuser
of a binary backtracking tree with depth n, our implementation requires only
$6n+14$ CX gates. We detail the process of constructing accept and reject
oracles for Sudoku problems using our interface to quantum backtracking. The
presented code is written using Qrisp, a high-level quantum programming
language, making it executable on most current physical backends and
simulators. Subsequently, we perform several simulator based experiments and
demonstrate solving 4x4 Sudoku instances with up to 9 empty fields. This is, to
the best of our knowledge, the first instance of a compilable implementation of
this generality, marking a significant and exciting step forward in quantum
software engineering.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Entanglement-symmetries of covariant channels</b>—2020-12-10 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05761v8)] Dominic Verdon


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Let G and G' be monoidally equivalent compact quantum groups, and let H be a
Hopf-Galois object realising a monoidal equivalence between these groups'
representation categories. This monoidal equivalence induces an equivalence
Chan(G) -> Chan(G'), where Chan(G) is the category whose objects are
finite-dimensional C*-algebras with an action of G and whose morphisms are
covariant channels. We show that, if the Hopf-Galois object H has a
finite-dimensional *-representation, then channels related by this equivalence
can simulate each other using a finite-dimensional entangled resource. We use
this result to calculate the entanglement-assisted capacities of certain
quantum channels.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Lecture Notes on Quantum Electrical Circuits</b>—2023-12-08 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05329v2)] Alessandro Ciani, David P. DiVincenzo, Barbara M. Terhal


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  During the last 30 years, stimulated by the quest to build superconducting
quantum processors, a theory of quantum electrical circuits has emerged and
this theory goes under the name of circuit quantum electrodynamics or
circuit-QED. The goal of the theory is to provide a quantum description of the
most relevant degrees of freedom. The central objects to be derived and studied
are the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian governing these degrees of freedom.
Central concepts in classical network theory such as impedance and scattering
matrices can be used to obtain the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian description for
the lossless (linear) part of the circuits. Methods of analysis, both classical
and quantum, can also be developed for nonreciprocal circuits. These lecture
notes aim at giving a pedagogical overview of this subject for
theoretically-oriented Master or PhD students in physics and electrical
engineering, as well as Master and PhD students who work on experimental
superconducting quantum devices and wish to learn more theory.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Derivation of Standard Quantum Theory via State Discrimination</b>—2023-07-21 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.11271v4)] Hayato Arai, Masahito Hayashi


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  It is a key issue to characterize the model of standard quantum theory out of
general models by an operational condition. The framework of General
Probabilistic Theories (GPTs) is a new information theoretical approach to
single out standard quantum theory. It is known that traditional properties,
for example, Bell-CHSH inequality are not sufficient to single out standard
quantum theory among possible models in GPTs. As a more precise property, we
focus on the bound of the performance for an information task called state
discrimination in general models. We give an equivalent condition for
outperforming the minimum discrimination error probability under the standard
quantum theory, which is given by the trace norm. Besides, by applying the
equivalent condition, we characterize standard quantum theory out of general
models in GPTs by the bound of the performance for state discrimination.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>An optically pumped magnetic gradiometer for the detection of human biomagnetism</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10113v1)] Harry Cook, Yulia Bezsudnova, Lari M. Koponen, Ole Jensen, Giovanni Barontini, Anna U. Kowalczyk


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We realise an intrinsic optically pumped magnetic gradiometer based on
non-linear magneto-optical rotation. We show that our sensor can reach a
gradiometric sensitivity of 18 $\text{fT}/\text{cm}/\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ and can
reject common mode homogeneous magnetic field noise with up to 30 dB
attenuation. We demonstrate that our magnetic field gradiometer is sufficiently
sensitive and resilient to be employed in biomagnetic applications. In
particular, we are able to record the auditory evoked response of the human
brain, and to perform real-time magnetocardiography in the presence of external
magnetic field disturbances. Our gradiometer provides complementary
capabilities in human biomagnetic sensing to optically pumped magnetometers,
and opens new avenues in the detection of human biomagnetism.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Multi-User Entanglement Distribution in Quantum Networks Using Multipath Routing</b>—2023-03-06 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03334v2)] Evan Sutcliffe, Alejandra Beghelli


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Quantum networks facilitate numerous applications such as secure
communication and distributed quantum computation by performing entanglement
distribution. Multi-user quantum applications where quantum information is
shared between multiple users require access to a shared multipartite state
between the users. We consider the problem of designing protocols for
distributing such states, at an increased entanglement rate.
  We propose three protocols that increase the entanglement rate of multi-user
applications by leveraging multipath routing. The protocols are evaluated on
quantum networks with NISQ constraints, including limited quantum memories and
probabilistic entanglement generation. Monte Carlo simulation results show that
the developed protocols achieve an exponential speedup of entanglement rate
compared to single-path routing techniques, with a maximum speedup of four
orders of magnitude for the cases studied. The speedup was also found to
improve for larger sets of users. When the protocols were tested in scaled-down
real-world topologies, it was found that topology can have a significant effect
on the achievable entanglement rates, with one order of magnitude difference
between topologies. Finally, we find that the benefits of multipath routing are
a maximum for short quantum memory decoherence times, and intermediate values
of entanglement generation probability. Hence the protocols developed can
benefit NISQ quantum network control and design.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Quantum option pricing via the Karhunen-Loève expansion</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10132v1)] Anupam Prakash, Yue Sun, Shouvanik Chakrabarti, Charlie Che, Aditi Dandapani, Dylan Herman, Niraj Kumar, Shree Hari Sureshbabu, Ben Wood, Iordanis Kerenidis, Marco Pistoia


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We consider the problem of pricing discretely monitored Asian options over
$T$ monitoring points where the underlying asset is modeled by a geometric
Brownian motion. We provide two quantum algorithms with complexity
poly-logarithmic in $T$ and polynomial in $1/\epsilon$, where $\epsilon$ is the
additive approximation error. Our algorithms are obtained respectively by using
an $O(\log T)$-qubit semi-digital quantum encoding of the Brownian motion that
allows for exponentiation of the stochastic process and by analyzing classical
Monte Carlo algorithms inspired by the semi-digital encodings. The best quantum
algorithm obtained using this approach has complexity
$\widetilde{O}(1/\epsilon^{3})$ where the $\widetilde{O}$ suppresses factors
poly-logarithmic in $T$ and $1/\epsilon$. The methods proposed in this work
generalize to pricing options where the underlying asset price is modeled by a
smooth function of a sub-Gaussian process and the payoff is dependent on the
weighted time-average of the underlying asset price.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Universal Quantum Computing with Field-Mediated Unruh--DeWitt Qubits</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10173v1)] Eric Aspling, Michael Lawler


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  A set of universal quantum gates is a vital part of the theory of quantum
computing, but is absent in the developing theory of Relativistic Quantum
Information (RQI). Yet, the Unruh--DeWitt (UDW) detector formalism can be
elevated to unitary gates between qubits and quantum fields and has allowed RQI
applications in quantum Shannon theory, such as mutual information, coherent
information, and quantum capacity in field-mediated quantum channels. Recently,
experimental realizations of UDW-style qubits have been proposed in
two-dimensional quantum materials, but their value as a quantum technology,
including quantum communication and computation, is not yet clear, especially
since fields introduce many avenues for decoherence. We introduce
controlled-unitary UDW logic gates between qubit and field that are comparable
to the two-qubit CNOT gate. We then extend this formalism to demonstrate
Quantum State Transfer (QST) (two CNOT gates) and SWAP (three CNOT gates)
channels. We illustrate the performance of these quantum operation gates with
the diamond distance, a measure of distinguishability between quantum channels.
Distinguishability measures like diamond distance allow for a rigorous
comparison between field-mediated transduction through UDW detectors and local
quantum mechanical operations and so quantify the performance of UDW detectors
in quantum technological applications. Using the controlled-unitary qubit-field
interactions we define an exact form of the CNOT gate. With this technique we
also define quantum field-mediated single qubit operations associated with the
Hadamard $H$, the $S$, and $T$ gates. Thus, UDW detectors in simple settings
enable a collection of gates known to provide universal quantum computing.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Extracting randomness from quantum 'magic'</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10181v1)] Christopher Vairogs, Bin Yan


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Magic is a critical property of quantum states that plays a pivotal role in
fault-tolerant quantum computation. Simultaneously, random states have emerged
as a key element in various randomized techniques within contemporary quantum
science. In this study, we establish a direct connection between these two
notions. More specifically, our research demonstrates that when a subsystem of
a quantum state is measured, the resultant projected ensemble of the unmeasured
subsystem can exhibit a high degree of randomness that is enhanced by the
inherent 'magic' of the underlying state. We demonstrate this relationship
rigorously for quantum state 2-designs, and present compelling numerical
evidence to support its validity for higher-order quantum designs. Our findings
suggest an efficient approach for leveraging magic as a resource to generate
random quantum states.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Trainability Barriers in Low-Depth QAOA Landscapes</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10188v1)] Joel Rajakumar, John Golden, Andreas Bärtschi, Stephan Eidenbenz


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  The Quantum Alternating Operator Ansatz (QAOA) is a prominent variational
quantum algorithm for solving combinatorial optimization problems. Its
effectiveness depends on identifying input parameters that yield high-quality
solutions. However, understanding the complexity of training QAOA remains an
under-explored area. Previous results have given analytical performance
guarantees for a small, fixed number of parameters. At the opposite end of the
spectrum, barren plateaus are likely to emerge at $\Omega(n)$ parameters for
$n$ qubits. In this work, we study the difficulty of training in the
intermediate regime, which is the focus of most current numerical studies and
near-term hardware implementations. Through extensive numerical analysis of the
quality and quantity of local minima, we argue that QAOA landscapes can exhibit
a superpolynomial growth in the number of low-quality local minima even when
the number of parameters scales logarithmically with $n$. This means that the
common technique of gradient descent from randomly initialized parameters is
doomed to fail beyond small $n$, and emphasizes the need for good initial
guesses of the optimal parameters.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Multi-Excitation Projective Simulation with a Many-Body Physics Inspired Inductive Bias</b>—2024-02-15

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10192v1)] Philip A. LeMaitre, Marius Krumm, Hans J. Briegel


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  With the impressive progress of deep learning, applications relying on
machine learning are increasingly being integrated into daily life. However,
most deep learning models have an opaque, oracle-like nature making it
difficult to interpret and understand their decisions. This problem led to the
development of the field known as eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI).
One method in this field known as Projective Simulation (PS) models a
chain-of-thought as a random walk of a particle on a graph with vertices that
have concepts attached to them. While this description has various benefits,
including the possibility of quantization, it cannot be naturally used to model
thoughts that combine several concepts simultaneously. To overcome this
limitation, we introduce Multi-Excitation Projective Simulation (mePS), a
generalization that considers a chain-of-thought to be a random walk of several
particles on a hypergraph. A definition for a dynamic hypergraph is put forward
to describe the agent's training history along with applications to AI and
hypergraph visualization. An inductive bias inspired by the remarkably
successful few-body interaction models used in quantum many-body physics is
formalized for our classical mePS framework and employed to tackle the
exponential complexity associated with naive implementations of hypergraphs. We
prove that our inductive bias reduces the complexity from exponential to
polynomial, with the exponent representing the cutoff on how many particles can
interact. We numerically apply our method to two toy environments and a more
complex scenario modelling the diagnosis of a broken computer. These
environments demonstrate the resource savings provided by an appropriate choice
of inductive bias, as well as showcasing aspects of interpretability. A quantum
model for mePS is also briefly outlined and some future directions for it are
discussed.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Dynamically Generated Decoherence-Free Subspaces and Subsystems on Superconducting Qubits</b>—2024-02-11 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07278v2)] Gregory Quiroz, Bibek Pokharel, Joseph Boen, Lina Tewala, Vinay Tripathi, Devon Williams, Lian-Ao Wu, Paraj Titum, Kevin Schultz, Daniel Lidar


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems (DFS) preserve quantum information
by encoding it into symmetry-protected states unaffected by decoherence. An
inherent DFS of a given experimental system may not exist; however, through the
use of dynamical decoupling (DD), one can induce symmetries that support DFSs.
Here, we provide the first experimental demonstration of DD-generated DFS
logical qubits. Utilizing IBM Quantum superconducting processors, we
investigate two and three-qubit DFS codes comprising up to six and seven
noninteracting logical qubits, respectively. Through a combination of DD and
error detection, we show that DFS logical qubits can achieve up to a 23%
improvement in state preservation fidelity over physical qubits subject to DD
alone. This constitutes a beyond-breakeven fidelity improvement for DFS-encoded
qubits. Our results showcase the potential utility of DFS codes as a pathway
toward enhanced computational accuracy via logical encoding on quantum
processors.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Stabilizer Formalism for Operator Algebra Quantum Error Correction</b>—2023-04-22 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.11442v2)] Guillaume Dauphinais, David W. Kribs, Michael Vasmer


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We introduce a stabilizer formalism for the general quantum error correction
framework called operator algebra quantum error correction (OAQEC), which
generalizes Gottesman's formulation for traditional quantum error correcting
codes (QEC) and Poulin's for operator quantum error correction and subsystem
codes (OQEC). The construction generates hybrid classical-quantum stabilizer
codes and we formulate a theorem that fully characterizes the Pauli errors that
are correctable for a given code, generalizing the fundamental theorems for the
QEC and OQEC stabilizer formalisms. We discover hybrid versions of the
Bacon-Shor subsystem codes motivated by the formalism, and we apply the theorem
to derive a result that gives the distance of such codes. We show how some
recent hybrid subspace code constructions are captured by the formalism, and we
also indicate how it extends to qudits.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Evidence of genuine quantum effects in nonequilibrium entropy production</b>—2024-02-10 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06858v2)] Qing-Feng Xue, Xu-Cai Zhuang, De-Yang Duan, Ying-Jie Zhang, Wei-Bin Yan, Yun-Jie Xia, Rosario Lo Franco, Zhong-Xiao Man


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  Entropy production is a fundamental concept that plays a crucial role in the
second law of thermodynamics and the measure of irreversibility. It imposes
rigorous constraints on the kinds of transformations allowed in thermodynamic
processes. Using an optical setup, here we experimentally demonstrate the
division of entropy production of an open quantum system into a
population-related component and a coherence-related component, validating
previous theoretical predictions. The coherence-related component represents a
genuine quantum contribution with no classical counterpart. By adjusting bath
temperatures and initial coherences of the system, we first derive the total
entropy production due to both populations and coherences, then remove all the
coherences of the system to solely obtain the population-related contribution.
The difference between these two results permits to isolate the
coherence-related term. Based on this division, our experiment ultimately
proves that irreversibility at the quantum level can be reduced through
properly harnessing the two contributions to entropy production.
 </details>

<details> <summary> <b>Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions for non-commutative optimization problems</b>—2023-11-30 (updated: 2024-02-15)

 [[arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.18707v2)] Mateus Araújo, Igor Klep, Andrew J. P. Garner, Tamás Vértesi, Miguel Navascués


 </summary> 

 **Abstract** 
  We consider the problem of optimizing the state average of a polynomial of
non-commuting variables, over all states and operators satisfying a number of
polynomial constraints, and over all Hilbert spaces where such states and
operators are defined. Such non-commutative polynomial optimization (NPO)
problems are routinely solved through hierarchies of semidefinite programming
(SDP) relaxations. By phrasing the general NPO problem in Lagrangian form, we
heuristically derive, via small variations on the problem variables, state and
operator optimality conditions, both of which can be enforced by adding new
positive semidefinite constraints to the SDP hierarchies. State optimality
conditions are satisfied by all Archimedean (that is, bounded) NPO problems,
and allow enforcing a new type of constraints: namely, restricting the
optimization over states to the set of common ground states of an arbitrary
number of operators. Operator optimality conditions are the non-commutative
analogs of the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions, which are known to hold in
many classical optimization problems. In this regard, we prove that a weak form
of non-commutative operator optimality holds for all Archimedean NPO problems;
stronger versions require the problem constraints to satisfy some qualification
criterion, just like in the classical case. We test the power of the new
optimality conditions by computing local properties of ground states of
many-body spin systems and the maximum quantum violation of Bell inequalities.
 </details>

